Minister of Finance Sri Mulyani Indrawati said that a sharp correction of the composite inde x by up to 4 pct in Wedenesday ? s trading was a mere temporary effect of regional factors like decline in plantation commodity prices and the financial crisis in Thailand .
In a press briefing held at the ministry here on Wedenesday evening , Minister Sri Mulyani flanked by President Director of the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX Erry Firmansyah said that some of the Indonesian economic factors had improved , instead the inflation factor of foodstuffs will soon dissappear which is confirmed by rice prices in all the provinces .
Sri Mulayani showed other factors , among others , the rupiah currency tended to strengthen , with a positive impact on the inflation .
This also happened to fuel oil prices .
The 2007 state budget is so far in a good condition and the government would continue implementing sound policies to create consistency which encouraged investors .
The ministry ? s data also showed non resident investors ? net buying of state bonds had reached Rp20.3 trillion from Rp 4.2 trillion in early 2006 .
Meanwhile non resindent investors ? net buying of shares had reached Rp17.3 trillion from Rp2.1 trillion in early 2006 .
If you ask if it is right or not , I can say it ? s fine and they do not abandon the country ,? the minister said .
In the real sector , the government has issued regulation PP No 1 / 2007 as a revision of PP 148 on income tax facility for investment in certain regions or in remote areas .
Today , the President has issued a presidential decree on value-added tax on primary products effective as of January 2007 ,? she added .
The government also has a commitment to boost national rice production through special programs and financing so that rice price could be controlled .
PT Astra Agro Lestari's AALI's crude palm oil production in October 2007 increased by 11.6 percent to 88,343 tons from 79,161 tons in September , a company executive said here Monday .
AALI Director Santoso in his report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange said the increase was attributed to enough rainfall in the country .
But he also said overall production from January to October 2007 which reached 730,297 tons was still 5.9 percent lower than the figure for the same period in 2006 .
He said in the first 10 months of 2007 , AALI's CPO production increased by 4.6 percent from 482,302 tons to 504,469 tons .
Bank Indonesia BI has predicted that banking credit in 2008 will grow over that of this year which is targeted at 22 percent .
I think the banking credit next year will grow higher than this year which is targeted at 22 percent
He said records showed that banking credit up to the last week of September this year had almost reached 23 percent .
The increasing growth of credit is in line with prediction that the country's macro economy and national bank performance would improve , he said .
On the fundamental basis , our banks have become stronger as we could see that the US sub prime mortgage crisis did not affect them seriously , he said .
He said that banks in the country were able to cover their losses using market mechanism approaches .
This shows that the system has been running well .
Therefore , Indonesia's economic expansion would be faster and credit provision would grow higher , he added .
On the fear that the high credit provision would pose a bad credit threat to the banking sector , he said that banks had better resilience nowadays .
The central bank's control over banks' risk management and good corporate governance is tighter , he said .
Indonesian Ambassador to Britain Marty M Natalegawa has called on the London branch of the Indonesian Muslim Intellectuals' Association ICMI to help facilitate the creation of closer relations between Indonesian businessmen and British counterparts .
The ambassador made the appeal when he received executives of the Landon branch of ICMI on Monday in connection with the association's plan to hold a workshop on The Nation's Economic Representatives here on July 8 , 2007 .
Natalegawa said there were many opportunities the London branch of ICMI could use to help Indonesian businessmen in expanding their business to Britain .
He said Indonesia and Britain had had bilateral ties since 1967 when British investment in Indonesia reached an amount second only to Japanese investment .
On the other hand , there were only a small number of Indonesian businessmen who had expanded their business to Britain .
This constituted an opportunity for ICMI to help Indonesian businessmen to do business in the United Kingdom .
Let's invest in and export Indonesia's primary products to Britain , he added .
In the meantime , ICMI chairman for London Muslimin Anwar said Indonesian-British trade relations had developed in an encouraging way of late .
According to UK Investment and Trade UKIT data , Indonesia's exports to Britain in 2005 stood at 912 million pound sterling against Britain's total imports of 912 million pound sterling , most of which were textile products and footwear .
PT Indonesia Air Transport Tbk IATA plans to get five new planes to serve passengers to East Nusa Tenggara NTT , West Nusa Tenggara NTB , Labuhan Bajo , and Bali , this year .
For that purpose , we will invest around US $ 15 million with an assumption that each plane will cost around US $ 3 million , President Director of IATA Roekman Prawirasastra said here on Monday .
Roekman Prawirasastra said that the chartered planes would be rented under a contract bases to travel agencies .
They will serve domestic and foreign tourists wishing to visit Bali , NTT , NTB and Labuhan Bajo .
The travel companies have expressed their need to have additional five planes he said .
IATA has so far had two planes of ATR 42-300 type , which have been ordered by PT Mirantha Nuansa Ayu travel agency .
One plane was handed over to the company last Saturday March 17 , 2007 and another one will be presented in May .
He said that his company has been operating 16 chartered planes and helicopters especially to serve foreign oil companies .
However , currently the company also serves travel agencies intending to charter planes for tourists .
Meanwhile , President Director of PT Mirantha Nuansa Ayu travel agency Henry Sulysto said that NTT , NTB and Labuhan Bajo were potential tourist destinations .
NTT , NTB and Labuhan Bajo have become favorite tourist destinations , but unfortunately there are no adequate transportation facilities to take tourists to those areas .
Therefore , we need cooperation with IATA to provide air transportation means , Henry Sulysto said .
The contract between IATA and Mirantha Nuansa Ayu will last for six years .
The value of the contract is based on flight hours or at least US $ 160,000 monthly for each plane .
IATA has targeted to get a total income of Rp 300 billion this year , or an increase from Rp 204 billion in 2006 .
The target has not included the revenue from the contract with Mirantha .
If it is included , the income will be higher than that ,? The IATA President Director said .
The company is also expected to get a net profit amounting to Rp 30 billion in 2007 , or an increase from Rp 28.6 billion in 2006 .
Publicly-listed PT Bank Mayapada Internasional Tbk will issue Rp750 billion worth of bonds in April to boost productive assets and improve funding structure .
The bonds will consist of Bank Mayapada II bonds worth Rp500 billion and Bank Mayapada II subordinated bonds worth Rp250 billion , the bank said in its prospectus issued on Tuesday .
The Bank Mayapada II bonds will be divided into two series : the A series with a maturity of three years and the B series with a maturity of five years .
The two types of bonds will carry fixed interest to be decided later on .
The Bank Mayapada II subordinated bonds which will mature in 10 years will carry fixed interest in the first five years and higher fixed interest in the second five years .
The bonds will go on sales on April 24-26 and be listed at the Surabaya Stock Exchange on May 1 .
Publicly-listed PT Medco Energy International Tbk announced on Thursday that its subsidiary , Medco E & P Malaka , has signed a contract for the supply of gas worth US $ 430 million to state electricity firm PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara PLN .
The two sides signed the contract on March 21 , Medco said in a report to the Capital Market Supervisory Board Bapepam .
Under the contract , Medco will supply 133 billion cubic feet of gas from its Singa gas field in South Sumatra to PLN's power plant in West Java between 2008 and 2017 .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Bakrie Sumatra Plantations Tbk UNSP said on Friday it posted a 49.41 percent rise in net profit to Rp172.90 billion last year on an increase in net sales .
Net sales rose to Rp1.18 trillion in 2006 from Rp883.31 billion in 2005 , according to the company's consolidated financial statement .
Operational profit increased to Rp292.16 billion in 2006 from Rp227.88 billion thanks to the company's success in slashing operational expenses through its efficiency program .
The increase in net profit raised earning per share to Rp74 in 2006 from Rp50 in 2005 .
The decision to pay an extraordinary dividend of $ 0.475 per share was made in light of the company's strong performance in 2006 and its current strong financial condition .
Indonesian shareholders will be paid the Rupiah equivalent of the US dollar amount , based on the Bank Indonesia middle rate of exchange on April 27 , 2007 .
Foreign shareholders will be paid in US dollars .
An interim dividend for 2006 of $ 0.025 per share was previously paid on December 5 , 2006 , bringing the aggregate dividend for the year to $ 0.525 per share .
An aggregate dividend of $ 0.11 per share was paid for 2005 .
Shareholders also appointed Rozik B. Soetjipto as independent commissioner for the term ending at the company's annual general meeting in 2008 .
He replaces Soetaryo Sigit , who retired from the company effective at the close of the meeting .
They also reappointed Eddie A. Arsyad , Ciho D. Bangun and Dirk Theuninck as directors of the company .
The terms of each of the directors will expire at the company's annual general meeting in 2009 .
The firm of Kantor Akuntan Publik Haryanto Sahari & Rekan , PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as the company's auditor for the year ending December 31 , 2007 .
Bank Central Asia BCA , Indonesia's leading bank , plans to extend up to Rp10 trillion worth of loans this year .
Its vice president , Jahja Setiaatmadja , said here recently Rp4 trillion of it would be allocated for corporations .
He said the loans would be provided through withdrawal of funds in the Bank Indonesia short-term promissory notes SBI .
The bank's loans in 2006 grew 13.5 percent to Rp61.4 trillion with corporate laons growing 19.0 percent to Rp23.9 trillion .
Commercial loans and loans for small-and medium-scale businesses meanwhile rose 16.1 percent to Rp29.2 trillion and comsumer loans dropped 4.9 percent to Rp8.5 trillion , caused by a decline of 40.9 percent in motor-vehicle loans to Rp2.5 trillion .
The bank's housing loans grew 23.9 percent to Rp4.4 trillion while the value of the bank's credit cards grew 34.3 percent to Rp1.6 trillion .
On December 31 , 2006 its commericial loans and loans for small - and medium-scale businesses reached 47.4 percent of the bank's total loans while corporate credits contributed 38.8 percent and consumer credits 13.8 percent .
BCA and state-owned Bank Mandiri are currently forming syndication to distribute credits for Jagorawi-Cinere toll road development .
They plan to extend Rp1.461 trillion for the project with BCA contribution totalling Rp584 billion .
Foreign investment in Malaysia in 2006 is five times that in Indonesia , apparently because the more advanced economic development in that country was more attractive to foreign investors .
Daily Utusan Malaysia here reported on Wednesday that the total investment in Malaysia in 2006 had reached 20.2 billion Malaysian ringgit US $ 5.6 billion , while that in Indonesia only stood at 4.7 billion Malaysian ringgit US $ 1.3 billion .
A spokesman for the Malaysian parliament for trade and industry affairs , Dr Tan Yee Kew said that Malaysia ranked second after Singapore in ASEAN in terms of foreign investment .
Singapore managed to attract 30 billion Malaysian ringgit US $ 8.3 billion in foreign investment .
In the meantime , the third position went to Thailand with 11.4 billion Malaysian ringgit US $ 3.16 billion and Indonesia was in fourth position with 4.7 billion Malaysian ringgit .
So it is incorrect to assume that foreign investment in Malaysia has been declining , said Tan Yee Kew in response to Yan Lian Hoe's leader of Barisan National Bukit Gantang statement that foreign investment in Malaysia is lower than those in its neighboring countries in ASEAN .
He further said that the 10 main investors in Malaysia in 2005 and 2006 were Japan with 8.1 billion ringgit , the United States with 7.6 billion ringgit , the Netherlands 5 billion ringgit , Singapore 4.9 billion ringgit , Australia 2.7 billion ringgit , Korea 1.1 billion ringgit , Cayman Islands 1 billion ringgit , Taiwan 0.8 billion ringgit and the United Kingdom with 0.7 billion ringgit .
Plantation company PT Astra Agro Lestari said on Thursday its palm oil production in the first quarter of 2007 fell 8.3 percent to 808,475 tons of fresh fruit bunch from the same period last year .
The drop in production resulted from drought in the first half of 2006 and the impact of the drought was still felt in the first quarter of 2007 , the company's director , Julie Syaftari said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
Syftari said production from the company's oil palm plantations in Kalimantan dropped 23.9 percent and in Sumatra 6.5 percent .
Only the company's oil palm plantations in Sulawesi saw a 14.2 percent increase in production .
The decline in palm oil production led to a 10 percent drop in the company's crude palm oil CPO to 200,662 tons in the first quarter of 2007 from 223,000 tons in the first quarter a year earlier , she said .
The Deposit Insurance Agency LPS has lowered its insurance rate LPS rate for the April 15 to May 14 , 2007 period by 25 basis points to 9 percent for savings in commercial banks and to 12.75 percent for savings in smallholder credit banks .
The macro economy is getting better , while inflation and exchange rates continue their stability , LPS executive chief Krisna Wijaya said on Thursday .
Although starting on March 22 the agency set the limit of secured savings at Rp100 million , the public's confidence in the banking industry remained high , he said .
Meanwhile , the agency maintained its insurance rate on dollar-denominated savings at 4.75 percent .
The LPS's measure to cut its rate made it equal to the central bank's benchmark interest rate BI rate of 9 percent .
Fitch Ratings said on Thursday it has assigned a National Long-term rating of ' AA-idn ' AA minusidn to Indonesia-based PT Bank Pan Indonesia Tbk Panin .
The agency has also upgraded its Support Rating to ' 4 ' from ' 5 ' and affirmed its Individual Rating at ' C / D ' .
At the same time , Fitch has assigned an expected rating of ' AA-idn ' AA minusidn to the bank's proposed senior unsecured bonds programme of IDR1.5 trillion Bond II / 2007 , which will be issued in three tranches , maturing in three , five and seven years .
The Outlook for the ratings is Stable .
The ratings reflect the bank's strong capital position , high but moderately reserved non-performing loans NPLs , generally good profitability , as well as implied limited support from the sovereign and / or Australia and New Zealand Banking Group ANZ .
Panin is Indonesia's eighth largest bank 2.4 % of system assets and ANZ has a minority interest in the bank .
Along with substantial growth in higher yield commercial lending , up 89 % to IDR7trn in 2006 , the bank's NIM improved to 5.1 % in 2006 from 4.1 % in 2005 .
Meanwhile , higher non-interest income was recognized from the sale of government bonds in 2006 .
Although operating expenses increased , they remained relatively manageable at about 3 % of its average assets .
Overall , Panin posted stronger underlying profitability with pre-provision ROA of 3.2 % in 2006 , compared to 2.2 % in 2005 .
Its NPL ratio rose to 9.3 % at end-2005 due partly to the application of stricter regulatory requirements on loan classification and less favourable macroeconomic conditions including fuel price hikes and subsequent interest rate increases from 2H2005 .
However , the NPL ratio declined to 8.0 % at end-2006 although in absolute terms it was still 8 % higher at IDR1.5trn as compared with end-2005 .
About 83 % of NPLs at end-2006 were corporate loans , which included several cases of large NPLs carried over from the Asian financial crisis .
The remaining 17 % of NPLs were in the commercial and consumer segments , which increased in 2006 but from a low base with the combined NPL ratio at 2.1 % at end-2006 from 1.7 % at end-2005 .
Ongoing loan restructuring efforts , particularly on a few of its larger corporate NPLs , and an improving economic outlook , are expected to help improve loan quality this year .
Provision cover was 82.3 % of NPLs at end 2006 , below 111 % at end-2004 but stronger than peer average of about 60-70 % .
Fitch understands that secured lending accounted for the bulk of the bank's total loans at end-2006 .
Capitalization was strong with total CAR of 29.5 % at end-2006Tier 1 : 21.8 % , above industry average of 20.5 % .
While this ratio may decline with the expansion of its loan book , targeted to grow by 25 % in 2007 , Fitch understands that Panin intends to maintain total CAR at 20 % or more in the next few years .
Panin was established in 1971 by the Gunawan family who remain in control of the bank through a 45.1 % stake held by PT Panin Life Tbk. ANZ acquired a minority 29.02 % stake in 1999 and continues to provide technical assistance in areas like consumer banking , risk management , and IT support .
Like several of its larger peers , Panin has shifted its lending towards the consumer and SME segments , which constituted a combined 64 % of total loans at end-2006 .
State-owned Bank Mandiri is planning to acquire a multi-finance company or bank with assets reaching a certain minimum amount , the bank's chief said .
In our revised business plan , we will include a plan to acquire a multi-finance company or bank whose assets reach a certain minimum level , Bank Mandiri President Director Agus D.W. Martowardojo told newsmen after attending a state entterprises coordinating meeting which was also attended by State Enterprises Minister Sugiharto here Thursday .
He said with Bank Mandiri's non-performing loan NPL ratio having dropped to below 5 percent in the first semester of 2007 , its growth was expected to reach 10 percent in July .
Because of these prospects , the bank's business plan would be revised so as to accelerat its corporate growth .
The bank's NPL ratio now stood at 4.7 percent so it was ready to develop its business by conducting a merger or acquire another financial entity , he said .
Bank Mandiri has 5 business strategies and is striving to gain a share of 20 precent to 30 percent in the revenue pool in the respective market segments , he added .
But Agus declined to give more details on his bank's plan to acquire a multi-finance company or bank , saying only let us just wait .
Meanwhile , State Enterprises Minister Sugiharto said Bank Mandiri was able to lower its NPL rate from 16.17 percent or Rp16.2 trillion in 2005 to 6.06 percent or Rp6.6 trillion in 2006 .
In 2006 , Bank Mandiri won The Best Overall for Corporate Governance Award and The Best Disclosure and Transparency title from Asia Money .
State Minister of National Development Planning Board Bappenas Paskah Suzetta is scheduled to meet with World Bank WB President Paul Wolfowitz in the International Monetary Fund / World Bank Spring Meeting in Washington , DC , this week .
To be accompanied by James Adams , World Bank vice president for Asia-Pacific , the minister will meet with Paul Wolfowitz , Bappenas spokesman Syahrial Loetan said here on Friday .
Syahrial said the Bappenas minister in the meeting would talk on Indonesia's latest condition as the result of intermitent disaster early this year , and would probably ask for low-interest loan from the World Bank .
James Adams gave a direction yesterday that he would help Indonesia get International Development Assistant IDA with a low interest rate , Syahrial said , adding that it might be difficult because Indonesia has been classified into the middle income countries .
However , he said the possibility to ask for a loan with low-interest rate from the World Bank was an anticipatory measure because the interest rate from IDA is only around 0 to 2 percent per-year .
He added that the presence of Bappenas minister in the International Monetary Fund / World Bank meeting would be as an alternate governor of World Bank in Indonesia , while the World Bank governor in Indoesia is Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawqati .
Japan has granted US1 million to Indonesia to help support tax administration systems and improve tax services , a spokesman said .
Tax administration systems are a key to improving an investment climate and mobilizing funds for development programs .
Japan remains committed to helping the Indonesian government improve its tax systems , spokesman of the Japanese Embassy in Jakarta Ken Okinawa was quoted as saying in a World Bank press release issued on Friday .
Meanwhile , Director General of Taxation at the Indonesian Finance Ministry Darmin Nasution said he hailed the international community's support for the ongoing tax reforms in Indonesia .
The Japanese grant will be used to finance a study of our present practices and to make a plan for comprehensive reforms in the fields of business process , information technology and human resources development , he said .
Japan is collaborating with the World Bank in helping the Directorate General of Taxation modernize a plan to support institutional and organisational reforms , and resouces management .
Acting World Bank country director for Indonesia Joel Hellman said Indonesia had made a good start in its agenda of tax reforms .
The government would continue maintaining Indonesia's fiscal resilience in anticipation of possible over exposure of Indonesian economy by foreign parties by monitoring all foreign loans as many private companies are eying foreign financing schemes .
This matter will affect our payment balance .
Thus we have to monitor them foreign loans , Governor of Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank Burhanuddin Abdullah said after a limited coordination meeting on the exposure of the Indonesian economy here Monday .
The meeting which was attended by all the monetary and fiscal decision makers had yet to decide whether the foreign commercial loan coordination team which was formed under the presidential decree no.39 / 1991 would be continued or not , he said .
The discussion at the meeting is still at the early stage .
The question is whether or not the team would be continued , the governor said .
Burhanuddin said the meeting did not discuss limitation of borrowings by the private sector including state-owned companies .
Data available at the central bank showed the Indonesian outstanding foreign loans in 2006 stayed on a declining trend to reach US $ 125.257 billion per December , 2006 .
The oustanding foreign loans by the end of the first three months of 2006 reached US $ 134.627 billion and the value dropped to US $ 127.528 billion by the end of the 3rd three months of 2006 .
Publicly-listed automotive spare parts maker PT Astra Otoparts Tbk said on Monday it has agreed to sell its 7,072 shares in PT Exedy Indonesia to the Japanese-based Exedy Corporation for Rp12.977 billion .
We have signed a binding agreement on the sales of all of our shares in PT Exedy Indonesia to Exedy Corporation , PT Astra Otoparts' corporate secretary Kartina Rahayu said .
The share sales will be valid if all conditions in the binding sales purchase agreement are met , she said .
She said the transaction did not contain a conflict of interests among the board of commissioners , the board of directors and majority shareholders .
The more so the value of shares is not quite material as it reaches less than 10 percent of the company's income and 20 percent of its equities , she said .
The Finance Ministry has decided to scrap final duties on imported raw materials of automotive spare parts to help encourage the domestic industry .
The provisions were contained in Finance MInister's Regulation No.34 / PMK.011 / 2007 dated April 3 which will come into force 30 days after its date of issuance , the ministry's spokesman , Samsuar Said , said on Monday .
The application must be such data as taxpayer's code number , business permit issued by the relevant ministry / agency , list of materials , the specifications and prices of goods and a statement of verification issued by a government-sanctioned surveyor , he said .
Publicly-listed heavy-duty equipment company PT United Tractors UNTR through its subsidiary PT Pamapersada Nusantara Pama has acquired 99 percent of Dynamics Acres Sdn Bhd DASB's stake in coal mining firm PT Dasa Eka Jasatama DEJ at the maximum price of US $ 19.50 million , a spokesman said .
Part of the transaction's value , namely $ 14.40 million , will be paid in advance in the form of a bank guarantee which DASB can cash subject to conditions stipulated in a shares sale agreement , UNTR Vice President Director Djoko Pranoto told the Surabaya Stock Exchange here Friday .
He said the transaction was subject to terms and conditions contained in a Shares Sales Agreement SSA signed by the concerned parties last April 30 and to become effective after all conditions precedent set in the SSA had been fulfilled .
If the conditions precedent in the SSA could be met within 9 months Pama would obtain the DEJ stake and own all DEJ shares indirectly .
As part of the agreement , Pama will help repay DEJ's obligations to third parties totaling US $ 11 million , Djoko said .
He said the signing of the SSA was part of Pama's comprehensive plan to settle DEJ's claim and previous acquisitions of mining concessions and a coal marketing firm .
Publicly-listed pharmaceutical company PT Tempo Scan Pacific Tbk said on Friday its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 rose 12.83 percent to Rp106.93 billion from the same period last year on higher demand for its products .
Net sales in the first three months of 2007 increased to Rp732.94 billion from Rp638.29 billion in the same period of 2006 , the compay's consolidated quarterly financial report shows .
Operational profit slightly increased to Rp117.82 billion in the January-March period of 2007 from Rp117.27 billion in the same period last year , raising earning per share to Rp24 from Rp21 .
Last year , the company posted a net profit of Rp272.58 billion , down 8.16 percent from a year earlier due to increasing operational costs .
The Surabaya Stock Exchange BES planned another auction of 23 category A shares on June 4 , the BES director said here Friday .
The eight companies that will auction their shares are PT Inti Prebon Securities , PT Mashill Jaya Securities , PT Trisula Cipta Dana , PT Paramitra Artha Pertiwi , PT Kestrel Sekuritas Surabaya , PT Finanza Indonesia , PT Pentasena Arthasentosa and PT Bomar Sekuritas .
The eight other firms are PT Bintang Nusantara Sekuritas , PT GS Capital , PT Intan Artha , PT Ramayana Artha Perkasa , PT Primarindo Securities , PT Dhanapasifik Securities , PT Bumi Arta Securindo and PT Buana Securities .
The other seven are PT Unisecurindo Abadai , PT Inter Pacific Securities , PT Indoverse Securities , PT Arga Artha Securities , PT CIMB Niaga Securities , PT General Capital and PT Muara Securities .
Publicly-listed PT International Nickel Indonesia INCO reported that it posted unaudited net earnings of US $ 227.8 million for the first quarter of 2007 or up 426 percent from restated net earnings of US $ 43.3 million for the first quarter of 2006 .
PT Inco's realized price for nickel in matte averaged US $ 29.149 per ton in the first quarter of 2007 , compared to US $ 11.136 per ton in the corresponding 2006 period and US $ 24.725 per ton in the fourth quarter of 2006 .
Production of nickel in matte for the first quarter of 2007 was 17,980 tons , compared to 17,361 tons in the same period in 2006 .
Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi is scheduled to visit Jakarta , Indonesia , in the near future to strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries , especially in the financial sector .
The Japanese minister's planned visit was especially to intensify cooperation in the financial sector following the dissolution of CGI Consultative Group on Indonesia , Indonesian Finance Miniter Sri Mulyani told ANTARA here on Saturday on the sidelines of the 40th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank ADB .
The planned visit of Koji Omi to Jakarta will be to discuss in details both on the financial sector cooperation and on loans , Minister Mulyani said .
On the sidelines of the ADB meeting , the Indonesian delegation led by Minister Sri Mulyani held a number of bilateral talks with several ministers and central bank governors from Asian countries attending the meeting .
Japan has expressed its commitment in the bilateral relations with Indonesia , by among other things providing loans amounting to US $ 200 million this year , which realized last March .
We will explore more cooperation next year , when the bilateral relations between the two countries will celebrate its 50th anniversary .
So , we have agreed to strengthen the bilateral ties , he said .
The bilateral meeting with Japan on Saturday also discussed cooperation between ASEAN and its business partners , namely Japan , China and South Korea , which is called ASEAN + 3 .
Publicly-listed sea transportation company PT Humpuss Intermoda Transportation HITS will sell two oil tankers for US $ 36 million to increase efficiency and profitability , and buy 5 chemical substance tankers priced $ 159.6 million , the company said in a statement .
The firm would call an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to discuss the proposed transactions on June 13 , 2007 , HITS said in a release issued here Wednesday .
PT Humpuss had named PT Indoprofita Konsultama as an independent assessor which had indicated that the normal transaction value of the two oil tankers is between $ 29.88 million and $ 36.52 million .
Non-performing loans in the textile and textile product TPT industry in March 2007 were recorded at 23.37 percent or far higher than those in the banking industry which stood at 6.6 percent , a Bank Indonesia BI executive said .
The figure has created the perception that the TPT making is a sunset industry , BI Deputy Governor Hartadi A Sarwono said at a function to familiarize TPT industry businessmen about a TPT technology improvement program here Wednesday .
The government has actually decided that the TPT industry is one of ten main industries that must be developed but efforts to develop its production capacity have run into problems , he said .
In March 2007 the banking sector provided non-leather TPT industries with Rp27.5 trillion in credits or 32,6 percent of the overal amount of bank credits which was Rp843 trillion .
The banking sector's reluctance to extend cedits to the TPT industry prevented the industry from making progress , he said adding that the government had given the industry subsidy to buy machinery .
The government had earmarked Rp255 billion for a TPT industry machinery purchasing program in 2007 .
Meanwhile , director general for textile machinery and metal industry Ansari Bukhari said bank credit disbursement to the TPT industry sector was still good .
However , he added the high risk in the TPT industry had discouraged banks from allocating large amounts of credit for the the industry .
TPT industry needs Rp50 trillion to modernize its machinery but the banking sector is only ready to allocate Rp2 trillion for the program , he said .
The TPT industry made a contribution of US $ 9.4 billion to national exports in 2006 .
Ansari said his office would encourage the TPT industry to increase its contribution to national exports to US $ 10 billion this year .
Capital market contribution to gross domestic product was recorded at 40 percent with a capitalization of Rp1.400 trillion as of the first quarter of this year , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said here Tuesday .
The current capital market contribution to GDP showed an increase compared to that of late last year which stood at 37.4 percent with a capitalization of Rp1.250 trillion , she said in her opening ceremony speech at the Indonesian Investor Forum II .
Composite index at the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX in the first quarter of 2007 rose to the level of 2.000 , higher than 1.805 of late 2006 .
Daily transaction at the bourse was recorded by an average of Rp3 trillion which was far higher than Rp1.48 trillion daily late 2006 .
The finance minister expressed hope that the Indonesia Investor Forum II would give more information to Indonesian public on capital market , further develop the bourse as well as create strong and sustainable economic development .
The forum which will last on May 30 is being participated in by officials of banks , securities , financial institutions , investment consultation agencies , academicians , as well as national and foreign investors .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Astra Agro Lestari Tbk said on Tuesday it saw a 47.6 percent rise in its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 to Rp266.8 billion from the same period last year , driven by rising sales .
Sales in the January-March 2007 period rose 16.4 percent to around Rp1 trillion due in part to an increase in average selling prices of crude palm oil , the company's director , Santosa said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
CPO price climbed 37.5 percent to Rp4,591 a kg in the first quarter of 2007 from Rp3,340 a kg in the previous quarter , he said .
He said sales fell by 9.6 percent to 263,956 tons in the January-March 2007 period from the same period last year due to a drop in fresh fruit bunches .
However , a surge in CPO global prices caused the average selling prices of CPO and kernels to increase by 43 percent and 22.9 percent respectively , he said .
Indonesia's non-oil / gas exports are expected to grow by only 9 percent this year as the balance of payment will face a slowdown in the global economy and a slump in the prices of export commodities , a senior central bank official said .
On the other hand , the country's economic growth would be much driven by demand for imported goods , Senior Deputy Bank Indonesia BI Governor Miranda S. Goeltom said in a national seminar on the role of diplomacy in spurring export growth here on Tuesday .
Non-oil / gas imports were projected to grow by 14.5 percent this year .
Consequently , the country's trade surplus would fall from last year when it reached a historic record of US $ 15 million , she said .
She said non-oil / gas exports remained the main engine of the country's economic growth .
We should like to admit that exports play a key role as the engine of economic growth and the source of foreign exchange earnings , she added .
To spur exports , the government must issue a regulation to address export barriers , including the low competitive edge of domestic products , and the poor role of supporting agencies in increasing exports , she said .
An efficient system and procedure capable of erasing the high cost economy was badly needed to boost exports , she said .
Senior deputy governor of Bank Indonesia BI Miranda Goeltom said here on Tuesday she believed the country's economy would grow only BY 6.2 percent this year although the government had set it at 6.3 percent .
In a working meeting with House Commission IX Miranda said the government had to analyze sources of growth that would push the economy to grow by 5.97 percent in the first quarter to see if they have a multiplying effect , and whether the trend of growth was rising .
She said however that the figures could still change in line with quarter-to-quarter developments .
She said Bank Indonesia meanwhile had projected the country's economy to grow between 6.2 and 6.8 percent in 2008 with an inflation rate at 5 percent plus and minus one percent , the key interest rate for three months at 7.5 and 8.0 percent , the rupiah exchange rate at Rp9,000 and Rp9,300 against the US dollar , the oil price at US $ 56 per barrel and oil output at 1.034 and 1.040 million barrels a day .
State-owned Bank Mandiri will set aside some US $ 35 million in funds in 2008 for the cost of maintenance and expanding its information technology capacity , a sokesman said .
This the funds is already set in our draft but it is likely to be increased due to the particular situation where new technology purchase is necessary , Bank Mandiri Techonology and Operational affairs director Sasmita said here Friday .
Bank Mandiri has been providing the information and technology investment since 2000 with the initial investment of US $ 200 million , Sasmita said , adding that of the amount only US $ 168 million had so far been used .
According to him , the bank in the period 2004-2007 spent about 30 to 35 million US dollars on information technology per year on the average .
In 2008 , we still set the same amount although it is possible to change increase , he said .
He said further that Bank Mandiri could reduce the IT spending from 5 to 10 percent per year due to the stability of its installed capacity .
This year Bank Mandiri has also installed another 400 Authomatic Teller Machines ATM , making the total number or its ATM 2,650 across the country .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati had predicted this year's revised state budget deficit to decline to Rp49.5 trillion from Rp58.3 trillion in 2006 amid an increase in the government subsidy for fuel oil and electricity .
However the Rp49.5 trillion deficit in 2007 is smaller than the last year's Rp58.3 trillion , the minister said at a press conference after a cabinet plenary meeting at the presidential office here on Tuesday .
A decline in deficit was caused by an increase in the state expenditures and decline in revenue as well as the government's success in reducing the expenditures for ministers by Rp24.9 trillion .
The state's income , he added , rose to Rp724.5 trillion from Rp690 trillion , while the state budget increased Rp774 trillion following a rise in subsidy for fuel oil which had surged to Rp88.2 trillion from Rp55 trillion and Rp43.5 trillion from Rp 32.4 trillion for electricity .
In the meantime , Economic Affairs Coordinating Minister Boediono said this year's revised state budget was secured , despite the world oil price hike .
For 2008 , the government has prepared a change in parameter that may be implemented by making some calculation in fuel oil prices , consumption , production and the rupiah exchange rate .
Generally everything is are under control with the government taking steps designed to cut reduce its subsidy like by efficient use of fuel oil and electricity , he said .
However , according to Budiono , next year's state budget will be secured if oil production can be maintained at Rp1.034 million barrels per day or if possible , increased .
The Vice President will directly supervise oil production by establishing a special team in the 2008 state budget as a result of world oil price to reach US $ 100 per barrel .
Assuming that oil price reached US $ 100 per barrel in 2008 , Budiono said the 2008 state budget will rise by 1.8 percent to Rp75.8 trillion , Budiono said .
Indonesian credit rating agency Pefindo has assigned idBBB + ratings for construction company PT Truba Jaya Engineering TRJE and its proposed 2.5-year bond I / 2007 of up to Rp300 billion , with stable outlook .
The ratings reflected growing demand for construction business and the company's strong business position in power and industrial plant construction business , Pefindo analyst Ronald Hertanto said in a statement on Wednesday .
However , the ratings were constrained by the company's average business stability and large working capital requirement in the future that could lead to weakening financial profile , he said .
TRJE is engaged in providing project management , engineering , procurement , fabrication and construction of industrial , power plant , oil & gas plant , mining plant and fertilizer plant .
Established in 1976 , TRJE is a joint venture company between Jurong Engineering Limited of Singapore JEL and PT Tri Usaha Bhakti .
It was previously known as PT Truba Jurong Engineering .
Since late August 2007 , it changed its name into PT Truba Jaya Engineering after PT Manunggal Infrasolusi had acquired 45 percent of JEL's shares .
PT Manunggal Infrasolusi which is owned by PT Truba Alam Manunggal Engineering Tbk. TRBA is the major owner of TRJE with 96 percent stake .
The remaining shares will be held by PT Multi Energi Persada 2.3 percent and PT Kurnia Unggul Sejahtera 1.7 percent .
Indonesia has asked the Asian Development Bank ADB for the extension of its loans for a number of hydro-powered plant PLTA projects with a total value of US $ 7.5 million .
Indonesia has asked that the ADB loans , which would have been ended in 2008 , be extended until 2011 , RM Dewo Broto Joko of the National Development Planning Board Beppenas said here on Sunday .
He said that the ADB was considering to approve the request because the projects were utilizing renewable energies and were part of the clean development mechanism CDM .
He cited as an example the Poigar PLTA project in North Sulawesi whose construction had been delayed because the land acquisition and resettlement plan LARP for the project had not yet been completed .
There were still a large number of ADB-financed PLTA projects in West Kalimantan , Gorontalo , Lombok and Flores , for which we are asking extension from the bank , he added .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Bakrie Sumatera Plantations said on Tuesday it has bought 2,700 shares with a face value of Rp1,000 each from PT Nibung Arthamulia based in Palembang , South Sumatera .
The transaction was made in accordance with the articles of corporation and the prevailing law , Bakrie Sumatra Plantations Corporate Secretary Fitri Barnas said in a report to the Capital Market Supervisory Agency-Financial Institutions Bapepam-LK .
He however stopped short of revealing the value of the transaction and the percentage of stake in Nibung Arthamulia .
The price of state gas company PT PGN's shares rebound on Tuesday shortly after the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX lifted its decision to suspend trade in the company's shares .
The price of PGN shares rose by 11.49 percent to Rp8,250 on Tuesday morning from Rp7,400 on Monday afternoon .
The frequency of share trading reached 2,343 times with a volume of 52,033 shares and a value of Rp424.222 billion US $ 42.42 million on Tuesday .
The JSX lifted the decision after PT PGN clarified a significant decrease in share prices by 23.32 percent last week due to a delay in the commercial schedule for the South Sulawesi-to-West Java gas pipelines to March 2007 from December 2006 .
The government is planning to increase the retail sale prices HJE of cigarettes in March in an effort to achieve its excise tax revenue target of Rp42.03 in 2007 , a Finance Ministry official said .
He said that the revenue target of Rp42.03 trillion from excise taxes in 2007 was unlikely to be achieved unless the retail prices of cigarettes were raised and a specific tax rate was imposed .
He said that without an increase in retail prices , the state revenues could only reach Rp39 trillion to Rp40 trillion .
Anwar said a specific tax rate , namely a tax rate for each piece of cigarettes could be imposed to narrow the gap among the tariff rate categories of different cigarettes .
The gap among the tariff rate categories caused cigarette makers to produce cigarettes with low tax rate categories , he said .
We are introducing specific tax rates which enable small-and medium-scale firms to pay lower cigarette taxes than their larger counterparts do , he added .
The government and the House of Representatives have set excise tax revenues in the state budget for 2006 at Rp38.5 trillion. Of the target , only Rp37.9 trillion were realized .
For 2007 , the government and the House of Representatives set the target at Rp42.03 trillion .
The target was raised from Rp38.5 trillion last year to Rp42.03 trillion in 2007 because the state needs more funds to finance projects such as infrastructure and education , he added .
He said that the decision to increase the retail prices of cigarettes and to impose a specific tax rate was not taken all of a sudden .
This decision was taken since the beginning so that businesses would get legal certainty , he added .
He said that the government had plan to raise the retail price of cigarettes in March 2007 and to apply the specific rate taxes in June 2007 .
Fitch Ratings said on Monday it has revised Indonesia's outlook on the foreign and local currency Issuer Default ratings IDRs to positive from stable , while affirming both ratings at ' BB -' BB minus .
At the same time , the agency has also affirmed Indonesia's short-term IDR at ' B ' and the country ceiling at ' BB ' .
The revision to the outlook on Indonesia's sovereign ratings reflects the authorities' commitment to maintaining economic stability and fiscal discipline , as well as the government's stronger top-down policy intent to implement a structural reform agenda aimed at improving the investment climate , Ai Ling Ngiam , Director in Fitch's Sovereign Ratings team in Singapore , said .
Fitch said the government's efforts to tackle key investor concerns on corruption , bureaucratic and regulatory hindrances particularly in the areas of taxation and customs may slowly be paying off .
A culture of fear of openly engaging in corruption has emerged amid anti-corruption investigations leading to several high profile prosecutions , asset recoveries and rising complaints via the whistle-blower programme , the agency said .
Meanwhile , the government's electronic open tender procurement system has improved transparency , it noted .
Indonesia has also improved its ranking in the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index , moving up to 50 in 2006 from 69 in 2005 , it said .
Public finances and improving surveillance of broader fiscal risks are Indonesia's fundamental rating strengths .
Fitch forecasts the fiscal deficit will stay manageable at 1.1 % of GDP this year , while the government debt-to-GDP ratio should drop to around 38 % this year , levels last seen only in 1997 and better than the 41 % median for the ' BB ' rating category .
Nonetheless , the agency said , the debt-to-revenue ratio of 212 % in 2006 is less favourable than the ' BB ' median of 162 % and further tax efforts are needed to increase revenue .
Domestic debt re-profiling efforts have successfully reduced the bunching risks of domestic debt repayments in 2007-2009 by switching these bonds into long-dated bonds maturing in 2010 and 2025 , it said .
On the external front , a strong build-up in the forex reserves position thanks to commodity price increases , larger-than-expected import compression by manufacturers and robust portfolio inflows has provided a more comfortable cushion to deal with systemic shocks , it said .
Indonesia's gross financing requirement including short-term debt is expected to drop to around 66 % of official reserves , in line with the ' BB ' median , it said .
Nonetheless , it added , Indonesia's external balance sheet risks remain , as an up-tick in emerging market risk aversion could lead to a disruptive outflow of portfolio equity or debt investment , while a larger resident accumulation of private external assets may also weigh on the balance of payments .
Furthermore , on the current account front , a higher consumer and manufacturers' import bill attributable to the recovery in real GDP growth to approximately 5.9 % this year from 5.6 % in 2006 pose dollar demand pressures , it said .
The agency further said trade facilitation through the creation of Special Economic Zones , the push for an Economic Partnership Agreement with top export destination Japan and the implementation of National Single Window scheme for traders by 2008 is vital to raise Indonesia's current external receipts CXR .
Indonesia's gross external debt , external debt service and interest service ratios are weak compared to ' BB ' peer medians .
Looking ahead , Fitch said the resilience of the external position will require accelerated efforts to build sustainable capital inflows in the form of foreign direct investment FDI , as a preferred alternative to possibly volatile portfolio flows .
Indonesia's export competitiveness will also need to be addressed in the near term with greater urgency to improve Indonesia's credit risk profile , it said .
The government is in the process of forming a Forest Development Financing Company BUPPH that will finance development of 5.4 million hectares of smallholder's forests with a total of Rp9.7 trillion in funds from the Reforestation Fund DR , a spokesman said .
We discussed further steps toward BUPPH's establishment and they have been approved by the Finance Minister , Forestry Minister MS Ka'ban said after a meeting with Finance Minister Sri Mulyani on Monday .
Ka'ban said the drafting of a joint ministerial decree on the BUPPH's establishment was expected to be completed on February 1 at the latest and issued in mid-February .
The BUPPH would function as a public service body BLU to manage Rp9.7 trillion in rolling funds from the Reforestation Fund's Forest Development Account DR RPH .
This is for development of community-based forests across Indonesia , They could be located in Riau , Jambi or other provinces , he added .
He said it was necessary to develop community-based forests to enable the people to gain access to forest resources and play a role in the plantation sector .
Besides , critical fallow lands will be also be made more productive , he said .
About the mechanism to channel the funds to the people , the minister said recipients could return the amounts they had borrowed after harvest time with the understanding that one planting season would last seven years .
People could enjoy the borrowing facility individually or through local cooperatives , business companies or farmer groups , he said .
Ka'ban said development of the community-based forests would cover a total area of 5.4 million hectares and be completed in 2014 .
Number of state-owned telecommunication company PT Telkom's shares it bougth back from stock exchanges including New York Stock Exchange NYSE increased to 122,526,500 out of a maximum amount of 1,007,999,964 it was allowed to buy back , an official said here Tuesday .
The number of bought-back share was reached after PT Telkom reacquired 750,000 shares or 2.24 percent of market volume of 33,482,500 shares on January 25 , corporate investor relation vice president and secratary Harsya Denny Suryo told the Capital Market Supervisory Board-Financial Institution Bapepam-LK chirman .
The transaction was carried out with the help of state-owned investment agency PT Danareksa , he said adding that number of remaining shares that can be reacquired is 885,473,464 shares .
Shareholders' extraordinary meeting which was held on December 21 , 2005 and Bapepam's regulation No.XI.B.2 stipulated Telkom's share reacquisition period lasts for 18 months after the extraordinary meeting to June 2007 .
Publicly listed shipping company PT Arpeni Pratama Ocean Line APOL will buy two tanker ships worth some US $ 100 million , APOL Corporate Secretary Ronald Nanggoi said here on Saturday .
Nanggo in his report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ said the two tankers were expected to be dispatched in 2008 .
He said the two tankers would be operated under a subsidary firm of APOL , which was a joint venture between the company and South Korean Hundai Merchant Marine Co. Lted .
The plan to purchase the two tankers is based on a decision made during the Shareholders' Extra-ordinary General Meeting RUPSLB on July 28 , 2006 , he said .
Based on the BEJ records , the composition of APOL's shareholders as of December 31 , 2006 , consisted of Deg-Deutsche Investitions-EU which owned 8.67 percent , PT Mandira Sanni Pratam 30.67 percent , Mellon S / A Cundill Recovery FD 8.34 percent and PT Mandira Sanni Pertatam S / A PT Ayrus 21.04 percent .
World Bank country director in Indonesia , Adrew Steer , will soon be replaced because he will be given a new post in London , England .
I will leave Indonesia for London on February 28 to work for the British government .
I will remain in the World Bank but I have to be responsible to the British government , Steer said on the sidelines of a conference on public spending here on Monday .
Steer said having been World Bank country director in Indonesia since 2002 , he had seen the country make a lot of economic progress from time to time .
I have to leave Indonesia for London but I don't know who will replace me , Steer said .
He said Indonesia would continue to face new challenges in the years to come but they would lead the country to greater success .
The government at present is in a financially strong position and this is very good for Indonesia .
Therefore , with the new challenges , I am certain the country will make a lot of progress in the future , he said .
Asked about the dissolution of the Consultative Group on Indonesia CGI by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , Steer said he fully supported the government's decision because it was a sign of success .
I am glad CGI is dissolved because in my opinion , the dissolution is a sign of success .
CGI is actually good for Indonesia but in view of the country's progress , the CGI is no longer needed , Andrew noted .
However , he added that it was important for Indonesia to remain having both multilateral and bilateral dialogs with the international community .
But it is not necessary to sit at one table and make such commitments , Steer said , adding on the other hand that multilateral dialogs as such were not a bad thing as they could save Indonesia time because they enabled Indonesia to meet and talk with about 35 donor countries and institutions at the same time .
The National Development Planning Board Bappenas has proposed the cancellation of 11 projects funded with offshore loans worth US $ 370 million made between 2000 and 2006 .
Because we want the loans to be used effectively and efficiently , Bappenas proposes the cancellation of foreign-funded projects which according to the result of our monitoring turn out to be very slow , State Minister for National Development Planning / Bappenas chief Paskah Suzetta said on Thursday .
The projects were funded with loans made between 2000 and 2006 , he said .
By the end of 2006 , the amount of loans pledged by foreign countries and agencies reached US $ 13.7 billion , of which US $ 5.9 billion had been disbursed , he said .
The delay in the disbursement of loans is among others caused by phases of the projects .
For instance , the disbursement of loan for construction work cannot yet be made because it still has to wait for land acquisition for the project concerned , he said .
According to the agreement with the House of Representatives' Budgetary Committee , the amount of offshore loans to be withdrawn this year would reach US $ 4.3 billion , he said .
Data from the Bappenas show that by the end of 2006 , the country's outstanding loans stood at US $ 1,314.4 billion , accounting for 40.4 percent of the gross domestic product GDP .
The loans consisted of domestic loans worth US $ 693.1 billion or 21.3 percent of the GDP and offshore loans worth US $ 621.2 billion or 19.1 percent of the GDP .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said that Bank Indonesia BI should consult the government before taking any monetary policy because monetary and fiscal polices were intertwined with each other .
Communication and coordination should always be made with regard to various monetary and fiscal matters , including on the instrument types , time of issuance and the impact they may have on the monetary and fiscal conditions , the minister said after attending a meeting on tax affairs at the parliament building here on Thursday .
The finance minister made the remarks in response to the central bank's plan to issue six-month and nine-month BI certificates SBIs .
Asked on whether or not the BI plan to issue the six-month and nine-month SBIs would affect its plan to issue state treasury bonds SPN , the minister said it would not create any problem .
She said that advanced countries also had different kinds of monetary instruments which also had different maturity dates .
Advanced countries have complete monetary instruments which fall mature on different times , she said .
BI previously stated it would issue the SBI monetary instrument with longer maturity dates , namely six to nine months to achieve a better curve yield .
The additional monetary instrument is expected to be issued in the second semester of this year .
The bonds that were issued on Feb 22 , 200 and will mature on July 15 , 2022 could be traded starting the date of listing , chief of the bourse's bonds trading division Erna Dewayani said .
On Tuesday , the government auctioned the bonds issued at a weighted average yield of 10.69 percent and earned Rp4 trillion from the auction .
In the auction , the government received bids worth Rp7.565 trillion with the highest yield of 13 percent and the lowest yield of 10.5 percent , spokesman of the Finance Ministry Samsuar Said said .
Proceeds from the bonds issue will be used to help cover a deficit in the 2007 state budget and repay maturing bonds , he said .
The government is planning to issue state bonds with a gross value of Rp66.686 trillion and a net value of Rp40.606 trillion this year , he said .
The 2007 state budget deficit is expected to reach Rp40.512 trillion , while the state bonds that will mature this year will amount to Rp24.49 trillion , he said .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX has suspended a trade in the shares of PT Central Korporindo International CNKO at regular and cash markets since the first trading session on Friday until further notice .
Chief of the JSX Trade Division Supandi said here on Friday that the suspension was triggered by a significant decrease in CNKO's share prices by 59.30 percent or Rp102 , from Rp172 on January 24 , 2004 , to Rp70 per February 22 , 2007 .
Bank Indonesia BI has decided to lower its key rate by another 25 base points to 9.00 percent from 9.25 percent previously , the central bank's strategic planning director and spokesman Budi Mulya said here Tuesday .
The decision to reduce the benchmark rate known as BI Rate was made based on the assumption that the inflation rate in 2007 would be manageable and the macro-economic sector would remain on the track , he said .
The central bank has set the national inflation rate target for 2007 at about 6 percent .
Bank Indonesia has several times cut its key rate by 25 base points since May 2006 when it was still at 12.50 percent .
The central bank last reduced the rate by 25 base points to 9.25 percent in February from 9.50 percent in the previous month .
Indonesia's bank lendings fell by Rp15.5 trillion in January 2007 from a month earlier but the central bank Bank Indonesia believed the drop was seasonal .
He said third party funds also dropped by Rp7.4 trillion in January from the month before .
Likewise , the loan-to-deposit ratio LDR in January was slighlty lower than that of the same period last year , reaching 63.9 percent , he said .
Meanwhile , net interest income NII showed an upward trend , jumping to Rp7.9 trillion , the highest since the monetary crisis engulfed the country nine years ago , he said .
The return on assets ROA rose to 2.8 percent from 2.6 percent , fueled by a rise in net interest income , he said .
He said the amount of non-performing loans had also been successfully kept down as a result of the restructuring of debts incurred by large borrowers .
January's NPLs accounted for 6.8 percent of the total outstanding loans , down from 7 percent at the end of 2006 .
Based on the business plans submitted by banks to the central bank , they were committed to improving their intermediary function this year , he said .
Bank lendings grew by 14 percent in 2006 with the total outstanding loans reaching Rp832.90 trillion by the end of last year .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Tuesday that the state budget was still in a surplus in the first two months of the year as receipts had met the target while absorption of the budget was slow .
Receipts are still on track .
Expenditures are rather slow .
I have not seen it in their overall condition , but it seems it is still in a surplus in the first two months , she said .
She said that only a few draft regional budgets had been approved by regional legislative assemblies so that the funds distributed to the regions were mostly general allocation funds for paying salaries .
So there has not been any expansion , she said .
Regarding the government's income , the minister said it was still positive and had even increased by funds from the sales of international bonds last February .
Pressure will be seen clearly later in the second or third quarters namely the balance between income and expenditures when several debt payments are due and expenditures begin , she said .
The director general of treasuary , Herry Purnomo , meanwhile said until the end of February the state's tax revenue had reached Rp40 to Rp50 trillion of the projected Rp452.556 trillion in 2007 .
It covers only added-value and income tax and does not yet include tax on foreign currencies , he said .
He said receipts from the excise sector were recorded at more than Rp10 trillion .
He said absorption of the budget was still low reaching only five percent , unlike that for the general allocation fund and employee expenditures .
The budget is still safe until now as expenditures are still small .
Expenditures on goods this year are still small , less than five percent , he said .
He said the state's expenditures in 2007 reached Rp763 trillion , of the central administration Rp504 trillion , and Rp259 trillion by provincial and district administrations .
PT Astra Agro Lestari Tbk AALI produced a total of 77,445 tons of crude palm oil in August 2007 or significantly more than the average figure in previous months , a spokesman said .
However , the total volume of CPO produced by the company from January to August 2007 , namely 562,793 tons , represented a decrease from the 628,636 tons it turned out in the same period last year , AALI director Santosa said here on Tuesday .
The company also produced 419,722 tons of Super CPO this year , an increase of 14.4 percent from 366,759 tons during the same period last year .
Data collected by Oil World showed that CPO consumption in the world was estimated to reach around 39.2 million tons , an increase of 8 percent from 36.2 million tons during the same period last year .
Publicly-listed investment company PT Global Mediacom , formerly PT Bimantara Citra , has acquired 62,693,500 shares of telecommunication firm PT Mobile-8 Telecom , a Global Mediacom director said .
The transaction was carried out on September 5-14 .
Each share was sold at Rp289 , Hary Tanoesoedibjo told the Capital Market Supervisory Agency Bapepam-Financial Institution here Friday .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange said that as of August 31 , 2007 Mobile-8 was controlled by PT Global Mediacom 38.52 percent and 18.18 percent and Qualcom Incorporated 5.01 percent .
The rupiah on the Jakarta inter-bank spot market weakened on Friday afternoon as market players released the Indonesian unit although foreign investors have entered Indonesia to deal in Bank Indonesia certificates , state debentures and bonds .
The local unit weakened to Rp9,175 / 9,180 against the US dollar compared to Rp9,165 / 9,177 to the US greenback at the closing session on the previous day , foreign exchange analyst of PT Bank Saudara , Ruri Nova , said here Friday
Ruri said the rupiah was under pressure as market players speculated to release the Indonesian currency .
The movement to release the rupiah was somewhat impeded by the presence of foreign investors in the domestic market to invest in Bank Indonesia certificates , state debentures and Indonesian retail bonds .
Thus , the rupiah still has an opportunity to strengthen next week as foreign investors would increase their investment in the country , she said .
Ruri said with the presence of foreign investors to invest in e instruments of Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank , BI should be more active on the market to maintain the stability of the rupiah to prevent from moving within a wider range .
The rupiah which after the Fed lowered its interest rate by 50 basis points strengthened to below Rp9,200 per US dollar tended to rebound , encouraged by the presence of funds from foreign investors in the domestic market , she said .
She said the rupiah still had an opportunity to strengthen but the increase should not be too quick as such a condition would weaken the Indonesian unit fast too .
We are optimistic that BI will remain on the market to maintain the rupiah's stability so that its rate will not be far from its current position , she said .
Market players , she said , were still waiting for the issuance of data on US economic indicators which would show whether the US economy will strengthen or weaken .
If the US economy weakened , the rupiah would get big support and was expected to reach the level of Rp9,000 per US dollar , she said .
The profit-taking action might be taken only for speculation due to the improving US dollar on the regional market but the market's positive sentiment was still moving toward the rupiah , she said .
Publicly-listed giant food producer PT Indofood Sukses Makmur has earmarked Rp8.4 trillion for the acquisition of PT London Sumatra Plantations Lonsum through two of its subsidiaries , a spokesperson said .
The transaction which was carried out by PT Salim Ivomas Pratama SIMP and PT Indofood Agri Resources Indoagri was actually valued at Rp5.7 trillion but in line with the Capital Market Supervisory Agency-Financial Institution Bapepam-LK's stipulation on tender offers , the acquisition's value reached Rp8.4 trillion , Clara Surya said .
The tender offer requirement set by the Bapepam-LK was Rp6,900 per share or the highest price which has been traded for 90 days .
A Lonsum share was valued at Rp6,700 on Thursday .
Clara said the acquisition funds would be obtained from the company's internal sources and credit .
Salim Invomas would get a loan worth Rp1.45 trillion from Indofood and Rp5.71 trillion more from bank credits .
The remaining Rp1.2 trillion will be obtained from the group's internal financial resources in the edible oils and food sector , she said .
In its prospectus , Salim Ivomas reported it would purchase 500.095 million shares or 36.6 percent of Lonsum shares from First Durango Singapore Pte. Ltd. and Ashmore Funds .
Salim Ivomas would also buy mandatory convertible notes worth US $ 47 million which could be converted into 169.343 million shares or 19.7 percent of Lonsum shares .
Publicly-listed PT Barito Pacific Timber plans to acquire 70 percent of petrochemical company PT Chandra Asri's shares and to ask a meeting of its shareholders on October 26 to approve the plan , a spokesman said .
The acquisition of 38,360 shares of PT Chandra Asri will be carried out directly and indirectly , Barito Pacific Timber director Anton BS Hudyana told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Friday .
PT Barito Pacific Timber would conduct a right issue for the acquisition , he added .
Anton said the shareholders' meeting would discuss the settlement of a corporate debt to PT Barito Pacific Lumber and PT Tunggal Setia Pratama through a debt shifting to PT Inter Petrindo Inti Citra IPIC as part of repayment for the purchase of IPIC shares which was done by PT Chandra Asri .
Elnusa , a subsidiary to state oil and gas company Pertamina , has acquired 100 percent stake in Conocophilips Ramba Ltd CPRL , which is a subsidiary to US company Conociphilips , in Ramba Block of oil fields in South Sumatra .
CPRL holds 60 percent stake in the block while the rest belongs to Talisman energy of Canada , Elnusa vice president and corporate secretary Haris Syahrudin said in a press statement received here on Sunday .
He said Elnusa had acquired all CPRL shares in the block so that shareholding in the block was now divided between Elnusa 60 pecent and Talisman 40 eprcent .
With the composition Elnusa will now be the new operator of the on-shore oil mining .
The company integratedly will provide services in drilling , shipment , information technology , seismic survey and others , he said .
PT Elnusa has been operating in supplying support services to the oil and gas industry .
Its operations cover specific activities in the oil and gas sector such as acquisition and seismic data processing to distribution of special fuel oils across the country .
Various foriegn oil companies operating in the country have been using its services besides Pertamiba and the general public .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said the government is finalizing a mechanism on restructurizing the non-performing loans NPLs of state-owned banks .
Yes , we are trying to finalize a mechanism by clarifying its legal basis , and then contact the relevant law enforcers , like the prosecution office and the police , following the principles laid down in the mechanism , Sri Mulyani said after meeting President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono at the Presidential Office in Jakarta on Tuesday .
In the meantime , on the possibility of a hesitation of banks to provide a credit for fear of corruption charges , the finance minister said the concept has already been comprehensively discussed and hopefully there would be no such hesitation and fear .
By the end of last week the Ministry of Finance asked the management of state-owned banks not to be afraid or hesitate in estructurizing their non-performing loans in a faster pace on the basis of Government Regulation No 33 of 2006 and the Finance Ministerial Regulation no 87 of 2006 .
She also said that to make sure that the state banks make the proper preparations for the implementation of Government Regulation no 33 of 2006 on procedures of the abolition state / regional claims , an overnight committee for bad debt restructuring and settlement will be set up .
The total non-performing loans of the national banks until June 2007 reached Rp49.7 trillion , with 62 percent of which , or Rp 30.8 trillion , are bad debts of state banks .
Bank Mandiri with 56 percent is the biggest contributor of the non-performing loans menyumbang NPL , Bank BNI 23 percent , BRI 17 percent and BTN 3.1 percent .
PT Indofood Sukses Makmur Tbk , the world's biggest instant noodle maker , has acquired 70 percent of plantation company PT Mitra Inti Sejati Plantation MISP's shares for Rp66.5 billion , a spokesperson said .
PT Indofood acquired MISP shares through its subsidiary , PT Salim Ivomas Pratama , on Monday , Indofood corporate secretary Werianty said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Wednesday .
Based on the results of due dilligence , PT Mitra's plantations in West Kalimantan cover an area of 12,950 hectares compared to 16,268 hectares quoted in the information disclosure submitted on March 14 , 2007 .
Bank Negara Indonesia BNI , the country's second largest state lender , has raised its capital participation in PT BNI Multifinance BNIMF by converting its Rp188.32 billion US $ 20.72 million loan into capital .
With the loan-to-capital conversion , BNIMF's paid-up capital rose to Rp408.36 billion from Rp220 billion previously with 99.98 percent of its shares held by BNI and 0.02 percent by BNIMF's employees cooperative , Firman Wibowo , BNI deputy director , said in a statement to the Capital Market and Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency Bapepam-LK here on Thursday .
The bank also has capital participation in PT BNI Securities 99.85 percent and PT BNI Life Insurance 59.78 percent .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati has revoked the business license of PT Danamon Insurance in Decree No Kep-176 / KM.10 / 007 dated 17 September 2007 .
The license was revoked because the company had returned its business license , according to information from the Capital Market and Financial Institutions Monitoring Body Bapepam-LK here on Friday .
Previously , the finance minister as of April 5 , 2007 , had also withdrawn the licenses of 13 companies engaged in insurance-related businesses , an official said here on Friday .
Of the 13 companies , 11 had their licenses revoked because they had failed to improve their performance following warnings and sanctions from the government , and the remaining two because they had stopped operating .
The 11 companies were PT Putera Master Insurance Broker , PT. Esa Tama , PT. Adiprana Daya Aktuaria , PT. Jasa Aktuaria Hahade Hewitt , PT. Sesindo Matra , PT. Aspac Insurance Adjuster , PT. Catur Dharma Karya , PT. First National Adjustment , PT. Manggala Pirsa Nusantara , PT. Piranti Nusa Arta Manunggal , and PT. Trias Adjastama .
The two companies which had stopped their businesses at their own volition were PT Dinamika Reinsurance Broker and PT. Primasindo Insurance Brokers .
listed energy and engineering company PT Truba Alam Manunggal Engineering Tbk said on Wednesday it has acquired 28.91 percent of oil drilling company PT Meta Epsi's shares at US $ 6.251 million .
The share purchase was part of Truba's investment in PT Meta Epsi , Truba Corporate Secretary Jenty Tjandradjaja said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
But he stopped short of revealing the background of the investment policy .
PT Berlian Laju Tanker Tbk BLTA plans to take over Chembulk Tankers LLC at US $ 850 million .
Chembulk Tankers is one of the 10 largest shipping companies in the world and operates in various countries with its headquarters in the Republic of Marshall Islands .
He said the company would seek US $ 750 million worth of loans from four foreign banks namely Fortis , DNB Denmark , ANG the Netherlands and NIB Norway .
Following the acquistion of Chembulk , BLTA will be the third largest shipping company in the world in terms of the number of vessels and loading capacity , he said , adding that total loading capacity of the company's tankers will reach 820,600 DWT and its international market share reached 10 percent .
He said following the acquisition the company hoped its net profit this year would rise significantly from US $ 70 million to US $ 120 million .
Regarding fears over the company's debt Kevin said there was no need to worry about it because the company did not only borrow but also do something to reduce its debt ratio to operate soundly .
He said the company would sell four of its tankers at an estimated US $ 480 million .
The sales proceeds are expected to reduce the company's debt which will improve its operations , he said .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Astra Agro Lestari AALI Tbk said on Thursday its crude palm oil CPO production in the first nine months of 2007 stood at 641,954 tons , 73.3 percent of which constituted Super CPO .
The CPO production at the level resulted from an increase in the volume of fresh fruit bunch harvested particularly in the third quarter of 2007 .
In the January-September 2007 period the company's fresh fruit bunch production stood at 2,618,080 tons , AALI Director Santosa said in a statement .
He said 49.6 percent of the fresh fruit bunch production came from the company's plantations in Sumatra , 29.6 percent in Kalimantan and 20.9 percent in Sulawesi .
Rating agency Pefindo has reaffirmed its idA - ratings for publicly-listed chemical maker PT Lautan Luas LTLS Tbk and the company's bond II / 2003 of Rp300 billion due on June 24 , 2008 , qualifying them as having a stable outlook .
Based on its financial report ended on June 30 , 2007 , LTLS's outstanding bond II / 2003 stood at Rp246.76 billion as the company had bought back part of the bond , Pefindo said in a statement on Thursday .
The rating agency said the ratings were supported by the company's diversified products and good market .
However , the ratings were mitigated by the company's relatively high level of leverage and its exposure to fluctuations in the rupiah's exchange rate against foreign currencies .
LTLS now has four branch offices , nine representative offices and a regional office in Singapore .
Moody's Investors Service has upgraded Indonesia's foreign and local currency state bonds to Ba3 from B1 to reflect the nation's fiscal prudence , developments in its external position and sound policy management .
In its statement quoted by Thomson Financial on Thursday , Moody's also raised the country's ceiling of foreign currency bonds to Ba2 from Ba3 and of foreign currency bank deposits to B1 from B2 .
The ceiling of local currency bond and local currency bank deposits remains at Baa2 .
All the ratings have stable outlook .
Exchange-rate appreciations have also helped in reducing the government's debt ratio from a high of 100 percent of GDP in 2000 to an expected 34 percent in 2008 , said Aninda Mitra , Moody's lead analyst for Indonesia .
Mitra said a plunge in fuel subsidy and growing fiscal confidence in fixed-rate local currency debts had reduced vulnerability to interest upheavals or sudden domestic price hikes .
An investment company from Seychelles Islands , Pinnacle Limited , has planed to acquire all shares of PT Toba Pulp Lestari Tbk. Pinnacle would buy 1,260,420,864 shares of Toba Pulp Tbk at a price of Rp500 per share or equals to a total of Rp630.2 billion .
The plan to acquire the shares is correct .
Pinnacle wants to buy at a price of Rp500 per share , Toba Pulp Tbk Director Firman Mulya Nauli said here on Friday .
The news about Pinnacle's intention to buy all shares of Toba Pulp Tbk was heard for the first time early October this year .
However , both Toba Pulp Tbk and Pinnacle Limited earlier declined to comment about it .
The Toba Pulp Tbk Director finally confirmed about the plan in response to a press question .
Vice President of Raja Garuda Mas RGM Tjandra Putra who is in charge of corporate affair , also confirmed about the plan , although he denied it earlier .
However , he said , that his company , RGM , still studied the offer made by Pinnacle Limited .
The plan to buy Toba Pulp Tbk. ' s shares has not yet been reported to the Capital Market Supervisory Board and the Surabaya Stock Exchange , where Toba Pulp Tbk. has registered its shares .
Toba Pulp was earlier called PT Inti Indorayon , a pulp industry owned by Sukanto Tanoto , an Indonesian conglomerate .
The pulp industry , which is located in North Sumatra Province , was once accused of polluting Toba Lake and degrading a forest area in Asahan in the province .
The pulp industry suspended its activities in 1998 and resumed its operation as of March 2003 .
A number of its creditors even sued the industry of bankruptcy because it did not pay its debts amounting to US $ 500 million .
The upward trend in world oil prices can lower Indonesia's economic growth rate to a level below its target of 6.5 percent in 2008 , Senior Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia BI Miranda Goeltom said here on Wednesday .
Speaking at a round-table discussion , the central bank official said that the world oil price hikes would decrease the private sector's consumption as a result of the weakening of its purchasing power due to inflation and increased imported good prices .
A sharp decrease in domestic demand will push down economic growth in 2008 despite the fact that net exports are predicted to increase and imports to drop , she said .
Fueled by world oil and global primary goods price hikes , inflation will exert pressures on the economy .
These risks are the result of oil-price fueled imported inflation , she said during the discussion on the empowerment of the production sector .
Studies predicted that inflation in 2008 had the potential of exceeding the targeted five-plus-one percent and would reach 6.4 percent if the average price of world oil reached US $ 75 per barrel .
The high increase in the inflation rate is based on the assumption that the government will not subsidize oil prices , Goeltom said .
She said that based on simulations the effect of an average oil price of US $ 60 per barrel would boost inflation to 6.1 percent , US $ 68 per barrel would fuel 6.26 percent and US $ 70 per barrel to 6.3 percent .
The BI senior deputy governor added that a price of US $ 75 per barrel would increase the inflation rate to 6.4 percent , US $ 80 per barrel 6.5 percent , US $ 85 per barrel 6.6 percent and US $ 95 per barrel 6.8 percent .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Bakrie Sumatra Plantation Tbk said its profit in the first nine months ended Sept. 30 fell 6 percent to Rp136.14 billion from a year earlier due to increased interest expenses .
Net sales rose 39.1 percent to Rp1.12 trillion and operating profit increased 49.8 percent to Rp326.54 billion , according to the company's financial statement published on Wednesday .
Interest expenses jumped to Rp115.24 billion from Rp38.76 billion , causing non-operating expenses to climb to Rp126.06 billion from Rp7.15 billion .
Indonesia's monthly inflation slightly eased to 0.79 percent in October from 0.80 percent a month earlier , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
October's inflation brought calendar inflation to 5.24 percent and on-year inflation to 6.88 percent , BPS Chief Rusman Heriawan said on Thursday .
The question of whether it will remain at or exceed 6 percent until the end of December depends on the remaining 0.76 percent inflation in November and December .
In November last year , inflation eased to 0.34 percent , but we cannot expect it to recur , he said .
The government has set the 2007 inflation target at 6 percent and Bank Indonesia the central bank at 6 , plus and minus 1 , percent .
He said Indonesia would likely see the so-called demand full inflation in December due to pressure from the rising prices of consumer goods ahead of Christmas and New Year festivities .
Inflation clocked in at 1.04 percent in December 2006 .
The BPS noted that the prices of foodstuffs last month rose 1.87 percent , processed food , beverages , cigarettes and tobacco 0.51 percent , housing , drinking water , electricity , gas and fuel oil 0.21 percent , clothing 2.05 percent , healthcare services 0.45 percent , education , recreation and sports 0.21 percent , and transportation , communication and financial services 0.47 percent .
October's core inflation , which excludes swings in administered prices like fuel and volatile commodity prices , such as food prices was running at 0.80 percent , bringing core inflation in the calendar year to 5.12 percent and on-year inflation to 6.13 percent , he said .
Oil and gas sales rose 7.4 percent to US $ 436.5 million .
Income from drilling and relevant services went up 35 percent to US $ 119.27 million .
PT Kalbe Farma Tbk , Indonesia's largest publicly-listed pharmaceutical company , posted a 12 percent rise in its net consolidated profit in the first nine months ending Sept 30 on higher sales .
Net profit in 2007 to September was Rp604.53 billion compared with Rp540.44 billion a year earlier , according to the company's financial statement published on Friday .
Kalbe Farma currently operates four main divisions ; pharmaceuticals , health food , packaging and distribution .
Pharmacy is the company's core business , contributing more than 70 percent to its income .
The Indonesian economy is expected to expand by 6.2 percent this year on the back of increased consumption and high exports , a central bank official said .
Economic growth was expected to reach 6.3 percent in the third quarter of 2007 and 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter , Bank Indonesia Senior Deputy Governor Miranda S Goeltom said at a working meeting with the House of Representatives Commission on finance and banking here on Monday .
The rupiah strengthened at an average of Rp9,101 per dollar in October , up 2.2 percent from a month earlier due to strong economic fundamentals and the US dollar's depreciation against other global currencies , she said .
This prompted the composite index to hit its highest level in October 2007 , fueled by capital inflows , she said .
In late October , the country's foreign exchange reserves stood at US $ 54.2 billion , she said .
The inflation rate in October fell to 6.88 percent from 6.95 percent the month before due to a drop in the prices of volatile food , she said .
Indonesia's budget surplus in the first nine months of 2007 ended Oct. 31 reached Rp17.6 trillion , a minister said .
State revenues stood at Rp524.3 trillion and state expenditures at Rp506.6 trillion , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said at a working meeting with a Regional Representatives Council DPD's ad hoc committee here Tuesday .
The state receipts and expenditures respectively represented 75.5 percent and 67.3 percent of the target set in the revised 2007 state budget , she said .
Until Oct. 31 , the central government's expenditures reached Rp310.1 trillion or 62.3 percent of the state budget and regional governments' expenditures Rp196.5 trillion or 77.3 percent of the state budget , she said .
The minister said the country's inflation rate was expected to reach 6.5 percent and the economic growth rate 6.3 percent this year .
The rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar was projected to average Rp9,125 per dollar , interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates 7.95 percent and oil production 910,000 barrels per day , she said .
The country's foreign exchange reserves were expected to reach US $ 56.6 billion at the end of this year , she said .
She said exports would contribute 8 percent to economic growth , household consumption 5 percent and investment 10 percent .
In the revised 2007 state budget , the government has set the targets of economic growth at 6.3 percent , inflation at 6 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate at Rp9,050 per dollar , interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates at 8 percent , the crude oil price at US $ 60 per barrel and oil production at 950,000 barrels per day .
Judging by the above indicators , the budget deficit was expected to remain at 1.5 percent or Rp58 trillion of the state budget with state receipts projected at Rp722.1 trillion , up by Rp28 trillion from the revised state budget and state expenditures at Rp780.3 trillion , up by Rp27.9 trillion from the revised state budget , she said .
Bank Indonesia's 2007 foreign exchange reserve at the end of the year was expected to reach US $ 56.655 billion due to the recent increase in world crude oil prices , Senior Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank , Miranda Goeltom , said .
Early in the year when the world oil price was assumed at US $ 62 per barrel , the state's foreign exchange reserve amounted to US $ 54.3 billion .
With the change of the average oil price to US $ 69.8 per barrel BI's prediction , the foreign exchange reserve reached US $ 56.655 billion , she said at a hearing with the House of Representatives here Tuesday .
The increase in world crude oil prices raised Indonesia's balance of payment surplus in 2007 higher than expected , she said , adding that the surplus was also caused by the increase in commodity prices and capital and financial transactions expected to give positive impact .
The world crude oil price hike had also stablized the rupiah exchange rate in November , 2007 , reaching Rp 9,107 against the US dollar .
Thus , the average exchange rate of the rupiah against the US dollar in 2007 would range from Rp9,050 to Rp9,125 , she said .
However , the central bank noted that negative sentiments could affect the Indonesian economy , like the sentiment on the inflation before the end of 2007 .
There has been a slight increase in the inflation rate , which is apparent in the result of a survey conducted by BI .
This is an indicator we are observing to prevent excessive pressure on the inflation , she said .
Domestic car sales in the first 10 months of 2007 reached 349,489 units or well above the 2006 figure of 318,904 units .
Car sales in October fell to 31,260 units from 41,036 units a month earlier , according to the Indonesian Automotive Producers Association Gaikindo's data made available on Wednesday .
Of the total car sales in the first nine months of 2007 , 179,603 units were produced by Astra Internasional , the country's leading automotive maker .
This compared with 174,827 units in the same period last year .
Non-Astra car sales in the January-September period of 2007 reached 169,886 units compared with 144,077 units a year earlier .
Bank Mandiri , the largest state lender in Indonesia , has agreed to extend Rp604 billion in loans to fertilizer maker PT Petrokimia Gresik to finance the construction of four new plants to raise production capacity .
Bank Mandiri President Director Agus Martowardoyo and PT Petrokimia Gresik President Director Arifin Tasrif signed the loan agreement here on Wednesday .
The loans represented 70 percent of the total funds needed to build the four new plants , while the rest would be provided by Petrokimia Petroges , Martowardoyo said .
Meanwhile , Arifin said until 2009 Petrokimia would build nine projects , including a 25-MW coal-fired power plant .
The PLTU scheduled to become operational in late 2009 or early in 2010 was designed to anticipate higher crude oil prices , he said .
By switching to coal , Petrokimia could save Rp100 billion per year .
The company had to use oil due to a lack of gas supplies in the past five years , he said .
Due to the lack of gas supplies , the company's fertilizer production could not reach the maximum level , he said .
Petrokimia currently received gas totaling 42 million MMSCFD out of 62 million MMSCFD per day as agreed upon in the contract , he said .
Plantation company PT Astra Agro Lestari AALI's crude palm oil CPO exports in the first 10 months of 2007 fell 51.6 percent to 124,450 tons from a year earlier on higher domestic demand .
India remained the biggest market for the company's CPO , buying 45.6 percent of the total exports , AALI director Susanto said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Monday .
This was followed by Vietnam 14.5 percent , The Netherlands 13.1 percent , China 9.4 percent , Malaysia 2.4 percent , and other countries 15 percent , he said .
The exports accounted for 18 percent of the company's total CPO output which reached 695,517 tons , he said .
The CPO output in the January-October 2007 period fell 8.7 percent from the same period last year , he said .
On average , the company's CPO selling price in the first 10 months of 2007 rose 66.1 percent to Rp5,763 a kg .
The U.S. dollar fluctuated in a narrow range above the mid-119 yen line Thursday morning in Tokyo as its overnight advance on favorable U.S. trade data lost steam .
At noon , the dollar was quoted at 119.60-65 yen compared with Wednesday's 5 p.m. quotes of 119.58-68 yen in New York and 119.26-29 yen in Tokyo .
The euro was quoted at $ 1.2953-2956 and 154.96-155.01 yen against Wednesday's 5 p.m. quotes of $ 1.2932-2942 and 154.75-85 yen in New York and $ 1.2991-2994 and 154.96-155.00 yen in Tokyo .
In New York on Wednesday , the dollar surged to a near three-month high of 119.78 yen on shrinking U.S. trade deficits and falling crude oil prices , which spurred expectations that the U.S. economy will remain firm giving the Federal Reserve few reasons to cut interest rates , dealers said .
State-owned Bank Negara Indonesia BNI plans to conduct a rights issue in the first semester of this year , an official said here Thursday .
Therefore Bank BNI has been studying the implementation of the proposed corporate action , corporate secretary Intan Abdams Katoppo told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX .
Meanwhile , a letter issued on December 19 , 2006 by the State Ministry of State Enterprises on the government's plan on a divestment in BNI , stated that BNI has been included in the annual state enterprises privatization program for 2007 .
PT Bank Mandiri Tbk , Indonesia's largest state bank by assets , said on Monday its net profit in the year to September jumped 165.7 percent to Rp3.2 trillion from a year earlier .
Net interest income rose 29.5 percent to Rp9.7 trillion , the bank's vice president director , Wayan Agus Mertayasa , said .
The net profit was fueled not only by interest income but also by fee-based income which rose 26.2 percent to Rp2.6 trillion , he said .
The loans channeled by the bank in the January-September 2007 period grew by 10 percent to Rp111.4 trillion from a year earlier .
Non-performing loans in the first nine months of 2007 fell to 12.4 percent of the total outstanding loans from 24.6 percent a year earlier .
Meanwhile , the capital adequacy ratio CAR stood at 22.4 percent .
The President of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan on Tuesday issued a decree establishing Al Hilal The Crescent Islamic Bank with an authorized capital of Dh 4 billion .
The new bank , which will operate under the provisions of Sharia law , will cater to project-related finance requirements .
Al Hilal will provide all modern banking services , including financing commercial , industrial , tourism-related and real estate activities , with a special focus on the private sector , a statement said yesterday .
The presidential decree names the Abu Dhabi Investment Council as the sole owner of the new bank , and stipulates that its Dh 4 billion capital will be divided into four billion shares with a nominal value of Dh 1 each , Gulf News reported .
The decree also named Eisa Mohammad Al Suwaidi as chairman of the Al Hilal board .
The other board members are Mohammad Hassan Omran , Abdullah Nasser Al Suwaidi , Yunus Haji Khoory and Ahmad Sari Al Mazroui .
The bank will provide all the financial instruments pertaining to retail and corporate banking , as well as consultancy services , funds and portfolio management .
Fitch Ratings has assigned an AA - final rating to PT Bank Pan Indonesia Tbk Panin Bank's Rp1.65 trillion senior unsecured bonds .
The final rating was given to the bonds because of the completion of Paning Bank's bond issuance process , a press statement of Panin Bank said here on Thursday .
The final rating was the same as the expected rating given by Fitch last April 2007 .
The bonds were issued in three series with maturity respectively of three , five and seven years .
Panin Bank was established in 1971 by Gunawan family , which is still controlling the bank up to now through PT Panin Life Tbk .
Which owns 45.1 percent of the shares. Australia and New Zealand Banking Group ANZ bought 29.02 percent of the bank's shares in 1999 .
Indonesia's economy is estimated to have grown by 6.04 percent in the first half of 2007 on improving economic conditions in June , the Finance Ministry said .
Economic growth hit six-month highs in June .
This is very convincing and provides a conducive climate , Anggito Abimanyu , head of the ministry's fiscal policy board , said here Thursday .
With the economy expected to expand in the range of 6-6.1 percent in the second quarter , the government was optimistic about the economy growing by 6.3 percent as projected , he said .
Looking ahead , the Finance Ministry saw the economy in the third and fourth quarters expanding by 6.3 percent and 6.5 percent respectively .
The real sector showed signs of very positive development in June 2007 .
Tax receipts grew 50 percent on-year in June .
Overall , tax receipts in the first semester grew 20.8 percent , he said .
Data from the fiscal policy board show public consumption in the second quarter grew by 4.9 percent contributed to by a car sales growth of 7.46 percent , motorcycle sales 61.9 percent , electrical power consumption 8.2 percent , consumer credit 18 percent , value added tax on resident taxpayers 20 percent and value added tax on imports 28 percent .
Government consumption meanwhile grew 8.9 percent with state employee expenditure contributing 55.8 percent , goods expenditure 10.1 percent , and other spending 47.2 percent and regional spending minus 4.9 percent .
Exports rose by 9.4 percent , and imports 11.99 percent .
Overall , exports and imports in the first semester grew 15 percent and 12 percent respectively , he said .
Bank Indonesia , the central bank , said the country's balance of payments this year is likely to record an estimated surplus of US $ 13.4 billion .
The surplus will originate from a surplus in current accounts projected at US $ 8.9 billion and a surplus in capital and financial accounts estimated at US $ 4.9 billion , Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said in a working meeting with the House of Representatives DPR which began Thursday night and ended in the wee hours of Friday .
Foreign exchange reserves at the end of this year were projected to reach US $ 56.2 billion -- enough to finance imports and foreign debt repayments for 5.6 months -- he said .
In the first half of 2007 , the balance of payments saw a surplus of US $ 3.7 billion , helped by good performance in capital and financial accounts , he said .
Capital and financial accounts recorded a surplus of US $ 1.7 billion in the second quarter although it was 26 percent lower than the figure on the first quarter , he said .
The surplus was driven by foreign capital inflows in the form of portfolio investment , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanudin Abdullah said Indonesia had yet to recover from the financial crisis that took place ten years ago .
This is reflected in the existence of an anomaly between the BI benchmark rate and bank deposit interest rates in Indonesia at present , the central bank governor told the House of Representatives Financial Commsission at a hearing which began Thursday evening and lasted until the wee hours of Friday .
He said the anomaly lay in the fact that the BI rate 8.25 percent was higher than the bank deposit rate 5 percnet .
The BI benchmark rate should have been lower than the bank deposit interest rate , he added .
BI could not solve the problem by suddenly drastically lowering its benchmark rate , Burhanudin Abdullah said .
We are trying to lower the BI rate gradually while continuing to maintain stability .
Hopefully , the BI rate can be cut further in the future , he added .
He said a drastic and sudden lowering of the BI rate to below the bank deposit interest rates would disturb the economy as it would trigger sharp fluctuations in the bank deposit rates .
What BI was doing now is lowering the becnmark rate by 0.25 percent graually .
We are lowering the BI rate by 0.25 percent gradually because we have to observe prudential principles , he added .
Stock rating agency PT Pefindo has assigned an A - rating to privately-run telecommunications operator PT Bakrie Telecom's bond worth Rp750 billion issued this year to finance part of its capital expenditure .
The rating reflects favorable telecommunications industry and potential business model , Pefindo analysts Niken Indriarshi and Salyadi Saputra told the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Friday .
However , the rating was weakened by the company's aggressive business expansion that might lead to high financial leverage and expose it to high risks of fluctuations in the rupah's exchange rate against foreign currencies and increasingly fiercer competition among telecommunications operators , they said .
As of March 31 , 2007 Bakrie Telecom was 50.25 percent owned by Bakrie Brothers , 15.08 percent by CMA Fund Management , 3.17 percent by PT Bakrie Communications , 2.08 percent by Richweb Investment Ltd. and 29.43 percent by the public .
The economic team said here on Friday it predicted the real sector would grow positively until the end of this year in view of the good trend it had shown so far .
The real sector has started to revive as shown by various indicators in terms of macro-economics or sectorally , coordinating minister for the economy Boediono said after a limited cabinet meeting attended by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono at the palace .
He said it was predicted the real sector's growth would increase growth of gross domestic product in the second semester .
Finance minister Sri Mulyani meanwhile said indications about the improving condition of the sector could also be seen from increasing revenue from income tax PPh and value added tax PPN which estimatedly could be higher than the average inflation rate of six percent .
In terms of sectors almost all sectors actually recorded strong PPh and PPN growth , at least up double digit in 2007 , she said .
The growth of PPh in the construction sector reached 30 percent while PPN 39.2 percent , while the growth of PPh and PPN in the trade , hotel and restaurant sector was recorded respectively at 25.8 percent and 27.4 percent .
The PPh in the transportation and communication sector grew 35.4 percent while its PPN 3.4 percent .
Other sectors linked to primary sectors such as agriculture , mining both oil and gas and non-oil and gas grew even above ten percent .
Processing industries that have so far been considered job creators also recorded significant PPh and PPN growth respectively at 10.4 percent and 12.4 percent , she said .
She said a similar trend was also seen in the processing industries like food and beverage industry which recorded a 19.5 percent PPh growth after a negative growth before .
The PPh in the textile industry meanwhile grew 6.3 percent from minus 1.2 percent before , she said .
She said metal industry which recorded a minus 6.7 percent PPh growth last year now recorded a positive 8.9 percent , while electronic industry now recorded a PPh growth of 8.7 percent from minus 13.6 percent before and motobike industry recorded a 16 percent PPh growth from minus 30 percent last year .
Sri Mulyani said banking credits to the sector reached around Rp35 trillion until June this year , up from around Rp15 trillion in May .
The growth of banking credits has occured since August 2006 .
Again this shows there has been clear recovery of the sector , she said .
She said the recovery of the sector could also be seen from increasing capital expenditures in the state-owned companies reaching up to 22 percent .
Minister Boediono said although there had been a positive develoment in the real sector President Yudhoyono still called for the strengthening of the economic stability especially with regard to public basic necessaries .
The president called for careful attention to avoid unpredictable price hikes of basic necessaries , he said .
He also called for eradication of investment barriers to create higher economic growth to create jobs and reduce poverty .
Rupiah dropped to the level of Rp9,100 against the US dollar on the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market Wednesday morning as market agents continued to sell the Indonesian unit and buy the US greenback .
Rupiah's exchange rate drastically decreased to Rp9,100 / 9,105 to the US dollar compared to Rp9,070 / 9,072 against the US currency or weakened by 30 points over the weekend .
Retail Banking Director of PT Bank Mega Tbk publicly listed , Kostaman Thayib said here the market agents actively released rupiah making the Indonesian currency continue to plunge .
According to Kostaman , rupiah should actually strengthen as the Indonesian capital market is ameliorating when the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSE's index continues to strengthen reaching 2,355 in the morning .
Rupiah was difficult to predict as when a positive sentiment appeared , the local currency even dropped and vice versa , he said .
The drop in the housing sector has pressured the US economic growth triggering The Fed to lower the US interest rate , he said .
The US dollar dropped to 1,3836 against euro and it would even weaken to 1,3845 due to the bigger release of the US currency while Japanese yen to the US greenback reached 121.32 .
We predict that rupiah will still be corrected at the afternoon closing session as the market pressure is still big although the US dollar weakens on the regional market , he said .
He said Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank is now only observing the rupiah movement and has yet to enter the market in anticipation of further pressures as rupiah is still considered stable .
BI will likely enter the market if rupiah remains under pressure when the figure exceeds the level of Rp9,200 to the US dollar , he said .
Publicly-listed Bank Danamon Indonesia Tbk. announced on Tuesday its consolidated net profit after tax NPAT in the first semester of 2007 rose 83 percent to Rp1,020 billion from Rp 558 billion in the same period in 2006 .
Loans grew by 20 percent year-on-year to Rp 46,394 billion , driven by loans disbursed to the micro , small and medium or UMKM segments , Sebastian Paredes , the bank's president director , said .
Our macro economic environment has continued to stabilize over the past several quarters , and the first semester of this year has indeed been very favorable for many sectors in the economy .
Our loans to these segments have increased by 34 percent to Rp 16,247 billion from Rp 12,120 billion at the end of the first semester of last year , Vera Eve Lim , the bank's director and chief financial officer , said .
Bank Danamon's commercial loans increased by 15 percent year-on-year to Rp 5,893 billion , while its corporate loans amounted to Rp 7,461 billion .
Supported by the introduction of various new products and promotion programs , Bank Danamon's consumer loans expanded by 22 percent , or by Rp 2,916 billion compared to the first semester of 2006 , reaching Rp 16,212 billion at the end of June 2007 .
Our syariah financing also increased by 101 percent year-on-year , from Rp 154 billion to Rp 310 billion , while total assets increased by 60 percent , reaching Rp 550 billion from Rp 345 billion for the same period last year , Vera added .
As of June 30 , 2007 , Bank Danamon's total deposits reached Rp 61,294 billion , or up by 18 percent year-on-year , and will be able support the bank's loan growth , Vera said .
PT Hanjaya Mandala Sampoerna HMSP's subsidiary , Sampoerna Packaging Asia Pte. Ltd. SPA , has sold all its shares in Jiangsu Liantong Sampoerna Printing Co. Ltd Jiangsu which was set up based on a Chinese law .
SPA signed an equity transfer agreement on July 9 , 2007 which stated Sampoerna Packaging Asia Pte. Ltd. would divest 30 percent of its ownership in Jiangsu , HMSP director Kevin D. Click told the Surabaya Stock Exchange here Thursday .
He said settlement of the equity transfer agreement would be made based on an approval from the Chinese Trade Ministry or the Chinese government or relevant agencies in China .
The transaction , he said , did not carry a conflict of interest and was not a material affair .
Publicly-listed heavy-duty equipment company PT United Tractors Tbk announced on Thursday its net consolidated income in the first half of 2007 rose 18 percent to Rp8.19 trillion from the same period last year .
Growing demand for heavy-duty equipment in the non-mining sector over the period raised the contribution of the company's construction machine division to its total income by 51 percent from 48 percent a year earlier , the company's corporate secretary , Tjandrawati Waas , said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
Meanwhile , the mining contractor division's contribution to the company's overall income reached 41 percent and the remaining 8 percent originated from the company's coal sales from the coal mining concessions it acquired from PT Dasa Eka Jasatama on April 30 , 2007 , she said .
Despite the rise in net consolidated income , the company saw a decline in its gross profit margins to 16.6 percent from 18.2 percent due to a drop in gross profit margins in its mining contractor division , she said .
Compared to the same period last year , corporate profit margins in the first half of 2007 rose to 11.4 percent from 10.9 percent , she said .
The company posted a net profit of Rp552 billion in the first semester of 2007 , up 3 percent from the same period last year , she said .
PT International Nickel Indonesia's INCO sales jumped 198 percent in the first semerster of this year to US $ 1.036 billion from US $ 440.5 million in the same period last year .
Its president director , Arif Siregar , in a media gathering here on Thursday said the sales hike had raised the company's net profit in the period by 473 percent to US $ 707 million from US $ 123.3 million a year earlier .
He said the sales hike followed a rise in the price of nickel in matte to US $ 38.926 per ton in the second quarter of this year from US $ 14.326 in the same period last year and US $ 29.140 in the first quarter of this year .
He said the hike was also driven by nickel production which rose 18 percent to 39,000 tons in the first semester of this year from 32,000 tons last year .
An above-the-average rainfall since the end of February has increased a bit the water level at our main pool so that the company could raise the operation of its hydro-powered generator to a normal level , he said .
He said with the rising production he believed the company's production target of between 160 million and 165 million tons in matte for this year would be achieved .
The company's director , Sri Kuncoro , meanwhile said the company this year purchased 32 diesel-powered generators that could produce 32 megawatts of electricity to give additional power to the company .
He said the diesel-powered generators would make it possible for the company to maintain production while the operation of its steam-powered generators was halted for maintaianance in the second quarter .
Efforts to expedite sustainable and high economic and investment growth cannot be optimized without the support of the corporate sector , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Tuesday .
No matter how intensive the efforts made by the government to accelerate sustainable investment and economic growth , it will not be optimum without the support of corporations in the country , the minister said on the occasion of the handing over of the 2006 Annual Report Awards here .
The minister said enterpreneurship and innovative ability of business owners to turn challanges into opportunities would decide the extent of their contributions to supporting national economic and investment growth .
She said corporations were also required to show their care not only for shareholders but also for other stakeholders representing the nation's interest .
This is a dimension which gives birth to the noble principles of good governance which includes transparency , accountability , responsibility , independence and fairness , the minister said .
Sri Mulyani said the application of the five principles consistently was important not only for stakeholders but also for image building or positive perception of the nation in the eyes of global business people and other countries .
As parts of its endeavor to implement good governance , the government was carrying out bureaucratic reform programs aimed at building the government's capacity and ablility in boosting national economic growth and providing maximum services to the public .
We hope that it would eventually create public trust towards bureaucracy , she added .
On the occasion , winners of the 2006 Annual Reports Awards were announced , which consisted of six categories .
The six categories were publicly listed state-owned financial companies BUMN , listed non financial BUMN , publicaly listed private financial institutions , listed non-financial BUMN , unlisted non-financial BUMN and unlisted non-financial private institutions .
The Annual Reports Awards is an annual event which this year is held for the sixth time since it was held in 2002 .
The government is planning to issue state debentures in rupiah with an indicative value of Rp3 trillion through a state bond auction on August 21 , 2007 .
The auction will be carried out in two ways namely reopening serie FR0046 state bonds and auctioning a new serie , state debenture serie FR0047 , Director General for Loan Management of the Finance Ministry , Rahmat Waluyanto said here on Tuesday .
He said that serie FR0046 will carry an interest rate of 9.5 percent and will mature on July 15 , 2023 while serie FR0047 will carry a fixed interest rate which will mature on October 15 , 2018 .
The face value of the two state bond types is Rp1 million .
The coupons for serie FR0046 will be paid on January 15 and July 15 each year while that of serie FR0047 will be on April 15 and October 15 every year .
The issuace of the two types of state debentures is aimed at covering part of the 2007 state budget financing and at setting a benchmark in 2023 and 2018 , Rahmat said .
Around 200 top businessmen will join Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit to Indonesia from August 19 to 21 .
A senior Japanese foreign ministry official said here on Tuesday it would be the largest business delegation joining a prime minister's overseas working visit .
Besides Indonesia Prime Minister Abe will also visit India on August 21 to 23 and Malaysia on August 23 to 25 .
While in Indonesia Prime Minister Abe and Indonesian president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono would sign an Economic Partnership Agreement EPA , and the Japanese business delegation would conduct intensive talks with Indonesian business community .
The EPA would be the first to be signed by Indonesia but the eighth for Japan .
Japan has intensively developed EPAs to create a conducive atmosphere for economic growth in Asia with regard to global competition and to assure that country's growth .
Japan signed an EPA with Singapore in 2003 , with Malaysia in 2005 and with the Philippines in 2006 .
Prime Minister Abe soon after assuming his premiership in November last year began establishing EPAs with three members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Asean namely with Thailand in April , with Brunei in June , and with Indonesia this month .
It has also signed an EPA with Chile and is currently negotiating a similar deal with Vietnam .
It is now also conduting negotiations with Australia , Mexico , Swetzerland , India and South Korea .
According to the Indonesian embassy in Tokyo , at least 150 top business executives would join Prime Minister Abe in his visit to Indonesia .
They will be representing Toyota Motor Corp , Suzuki , Mitsubishi , Mizuho Bank , JBIC , Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi , JETRO , Daiwa Securities , Kawasaki Heavy Industry , Cannon Inc. , Marubeni Corp. , Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. , Japan Airlines , All Nippon Airways , Toshiba Corp. , Hitachi , NEC , and Sony Corp. Other companies include Tokyo Electric Power Company Inc. , LNG Japan Corp. , Nissin,Fujitsu Ltd , Nippon Steel Corp. , and Nippon Express Co .
PT Bakrie Sumatera Plantations UNSP is to be suplied with 23,100 tons of crude palm oil by PT Guntung Idamannusa GIN based on two agreements the two companies signed on Monday , an UNSP executive said .
The two accords were a management agreement and an offtake for crude palm oil in bulk agreement , Fitri Barnas , UNSP's corporate secretary , said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Wednesday .
Under the agreements , UNSP would provide managerial and technical services to manage 10,815.82 ha of oil palm plantations and oil palm processing plants owned by GIN in Pelangsiran sub district , Riau province .
The managerial services were meant to increase the productivity of oil palm plantations owned by GIN to at least 23,100 tons of crude palm oil , Fitri said .
Under the offtake CPO agreement , the 23,100 tons of CPO will later be sold to UNSP , she said .
The Indonesian economy in the second quarter of 2007 grew by 2.41 percent so that economic growth in the first half of this year expanded by 6.13 percent and by 6.28 percent year-on-year , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
Exports grew by 3.28 percent in the second quarter compared to 9.79 percent in the previous one , BPS Deputy Chief for Statistical Analysis Slamet Sutomo said on Wednesday .
Consequently , Gross Domestic Product was recorded at Rp962.501 trillion in the second quarter of 2007 .
In the first quarter of 2007 , transportation and communication sectors reached the highest growth of 5.2 percent ; followed by electricity , gas and clean water sector which stood at 4.9 percent ; while trade , hotel and restaurant sector by 3.7 percent .
In the first quarter of 2006 , transportation and communication sector expanded by 11.9 percent ; electricity , gas , and clean water by 10.5 percent ; as well as trade , hotel and restaurant by 8.3 percent .
Export growth occurred in nickel , metal ash , copper , automotive sector , as well as industrial and chemical production .
The economic growth was significantly boosted by an increase in government budget absorbance including in goods , employee and capital expenditures , Slamet said .
Government's goods expenditure jumped to Rp37.04 trillion in the second quarter of 2007 compared to Rp34.29 trillion in the first quarter of 2007 ; employee expenditure rose to Rp46.83 trillion compared to Rp35.66 trillion ; and capital expenditure increased to Rp9.66 trillion from Rp2.63 trillion .
In this regard , government's total expenditure in the second quarter of 2007 grew by 24.18 percent compared to 3.83 percent in a corresponding period of 2006 , Slamet said .
Household consumption grew by 1.46 percent and the agricultural sector by 3.63 percent in the first quarter of 2007 .
The Indonesian government expects its 2008 state budget to suffer a deficit of Rp75 trillion or 1.7 percent of the country's gross domestic product GDP , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said .
The reason behind the deficit is linked strongly to the government's fiscal policy in its efforts to stimulate the country's economy , the President said when delivering his state-of-the-nation address and the government's financial notes at the parliament building here on Thursday .
The head of state said the deficit would result from the difference between the state expenditure estimated at Rp836.4 trillion and the state revenues and grants projected at Rp761.4 trillion .
In the draft 2008 state budget domestic budget financing had been projected at Rp97.7 trillion which would originate among others from the issuance of government bonds worth Rp91.6 trillion , the sales of assets worth Rp0.6 trillion under the bank restructuring program , and the proceeds from the privatization of state firms worth Rp1.5 trillion .
In the meantime , budget financing that originates from overseas loans are expected at a net amount of negative Rp16.7 trillion , as a result of the withdrawal of program credits and project credits amounting to Rp43 trillion , which is less than the instalments of foreign debt principal amounting to Rp59.7 trillion , he said .
The negative amount of overseas loans was consistent with the government's aim to reduce the share of foreign debt instalments in the budget income , he said .
Yet , the increase in the state budget deficit should be matched with fiscal resilience , he said .
The steps to increase the fiscal resilience should be undertaken in a prudent , transparent and accountable way in the arrangement of government bonds , he said .
In addition , efforts should be made to minimize cost and credit risk as well as to improve the loan portfolio structure .
By doing so , the government's credit ratio is expected to fall by 33 percent in late 2008 , he said .
The decrease in credit ratio would strengthen the fiscal resilience , which was in line with the primary aim of embracing sustainable fiscal independency , he said .
Such is vital , especially in such volitile economy , he said .
The president said the financial notes for the first time included risk and influential factor which would immensely influence the state budget .
The risk factors were derived from revised economic assumptions and macro economic indicators , infrastructure development program , public service obligation and the welfare of state enterprises , as well as other factors such as natural disasters and pension regulation and social security programs , he said .
The government has set revenues from taxes at Rp583.7 trillion in the draft 2008 state budget , which are Rp93.8 trilion or 19.1 percent higher than the Rp489.9 trillion set in the previous revised 2007 state budget .
The tax revenues in the draft 2008 state budget are set at 13.6 percent of the Gross Domestic Product GDP , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said in his State of the Nation Address on the Draft 2008 State Budget and Government's Financial Notes at the parliament building here on Thursday .
The president said that the revenue target in 2008 was expected to come from domestic tax incomes amounting to Rp568.3 trillion and international trade taxes valued at Rp15.4 trillion .
Yudhoyono said that in order to maximize revenues in the 2008 state budget , the government would continue to carry out reforms on its administration and improvements in tax , customs and excise systems .
The government has set revenues from taxes at Rp583.7 trillion in the draft 2008 state budget , which are Rp93.8 trilion or 19.1 percent higher than the Rp489.9 trillion set in the previous revised 2007 state budget .
The House of Representatives DPR has finished deliberating amendment of Law on General Provinsions on Tax , revision on Law on Customs and Law on Excise , the president said .
On the other hand , state revenues from non-tax sources in 2008 are estimated at Rp175.6 trillion , or Rp16.2 trillion lower than the the amount of non-tax incomes in 2007 .
He said that the non-tax revenues in 2008 were lower than those in 2007 because the government's incomes from the profits of state enterprises and from other non-tax sources also dropped .
The government continues to carry out improvement measures on provisions and legislations which are related to non-tax income sources as well as on the optimizing and intensifying state incomes , the head of state said .
The president also extended his appreciation to the DPR for its success in accompalishing three laws which supported the implementation of provisions on tax revenues and incomes from non-tax sources .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said he was convinced Indonesia will be able to survive the present upheaval in global stock markets with minimum harm .
I am optimistic that with our fundamental economy and finance
Our foreign exchange reserves and other enforcing efforts , we will
God willing weather these upheavals with the least possible harm , he said in his address on the 2008 Draft State Budget and the government's Financial Notes at a House of Representatives DPR plenary session on Thursday .
He noted that during the past few days , people could see the upheaval in the world's stock markets in the decline of the subprime mortgage in the United States .
The impact that could be felt was the corrected price of the stakes and the weakened exchange rates all over the world , including in Indonesia .
This condition reminds us that globalization , besides opening new opportunities for our development , also brings risks that should be watched .
We do hope that efforts being made by the financial authorities in the developed nations will succeed in overcoming the problem , he said .
At home , he added , the government was also making anticipative efforts by strengthening coordination between the fiscal and monetary authorities to heighten alertness .
He further said although the nation's journey was not always smooth and easy , there should be trust that the direction taken was already on the right track .
In the last part of his speech , the president called on the people to use all the existing resources and capabilities , including fiscal policies , efficiently and effectively in the implementation of national development in 2008 and thus all the results of national development could be enjoyed by all the people .
Bank Indonesia central bank / BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah has expressed optimism that the country's economic growth in 2008 will hit the government-set target of 6.8 percent .
I think that it is an optimistic target .
Even I believe the economy will expand in the range of 6.5-7 percent next year , Burhanuddin said after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono delivered his state-of-the-nation address and the government's financial notes at the parliament building here Thursday .
Burhanuddin said the growth would be driven by among others growing investment .
Today , more and more banks are channeling infrastructure credits , he said .
In the draft 2008 state budget , the government has set the economic growth target of 6.8 percent for 2008 with the budget deficit expected to reach 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product , or equivalent to Rp75.1 trillion .
The deficit would result from the difference between state revenues and grants estimated at Rp761.4 trillion and state expenditure projected at Rp836.4 trillion .
The central government's expenditure is projected at Rp564.6 trillion and regional governments' expenditure at Rp271.8 trillion .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said the conditions of the world economy were now improving so that the rupiah's exchange rate was expected to restabilize at around Rp9,000 per US dollar .
Based on latest reports , world economic conditions are increasingly conducive and manageable .
Currency exchange rates have returned to their fair levels , so has the composite price index and the market of state debentures , the central bank governor said after a meeting with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono here on Monday .
He said with such conditions , the rupiah exchange rate would regain stability , depite the fact that it was now moving towards a new equilibrium which necessitated BI to remain in the market to watch its developments and to prevent the emergence of signs of possible extreme volatility .
We will continue to watch and keep stability under control so that we can develop the national economy with a sense of security , he said .
He said during the weakening of the rupiah last week , BI intervened in the market only slightly because the domestic economy and the United States' mortgage bond turmoil were not too closely inter-related .
What happened was not more than an adjustment to a portfolio which affected us , he said .
The BI governor said with the estimate that the rupiah rate would return to its normal level , the inflation target which was set at 6-6.5 percent this year would be achieved .
The rupiah on Monday regained its strength against the US dollar at Rp9,370 per US dollar after it plunged to Rp9,450 last week .
Bank Indonesia BI Deputy Governor Aslim Tadjuddin said here on Monday the central bank would strive to maintain the rupiah's exchange rate at between Rp9,000 and Rp9,300 against the US dollar in 2008 .
The range is quite realistic considering the improving development of fundamental factors in the national economy , he said at a meeting with members of Commission XI of the House of Representatives DPR .
He said although the national currency had come under pressure following the recent subprime mortgage crisis in the US , he hoped the rupiah's exchange rate would be more controllable after a variety of measures had been taken by several central banks in the developed world , especially the US Federal Reserve to control the problem .
Seeing the progress in the efforts to overcome the crisis we hope global financial market conditions would recover and have a positive impact on the domestic market , he said .
He said the negative impact of the crisis was not the fundamental cause of the pressure on the rupiah .
But he also said BI and the government would remain alert towards the possible impact of the crisis .
Therefore , BI and the government would always maintain the stability of the macro-economic indicators by giving positive signals to the financial market to increase market confidence in the stability of the country's financial system and macro-economy .
With regard the government's assumption of the rupiah exchange rate of Rp9,100 against the US dollar in the draft 2008 budget , he said it was still realistic and in line with BI's expectations .
Indonesia had to spend US $ 127 million of its foreign exchangge reserves to intervene in the money market to prevent the rupiah from weakening due to the impact of the subprime mortgage meltdown in the US as well as to repay debts , a central bank official said .
The amount of our foreign exchange reserves obviously dropped as we needed part of it to intervene in the money market to maintain the rupiah's exchange rate as well as to repay debts , Deputy Bank Indonesia Governor Aslim Tajudin said following a meeting with the House of Representatives DPR Commission XI on finance , banking industry and non-bank financial institutions here Monday .
The country's foreign exchange reserves fell to US $ 51.73 billion in the week ending on August 23 from US $ 51.9 billion late last month , he said .
As a central bank , Bank Indonesia deemed it necessary to intervene in the money market to prevent the local currency from falling so that it would not endanger the economy , he said .
We absolutely needed the funds from the foreign exchange reserves to conduct the market intervention to prevent the rupiah from becoming volatile , he said .
He expressed hope the current mortgage credit crisis would immediately be overcome after the measures taken by the US Federal Reserve had shown signs of improvement .
But in the days ahead the measures taken by the Fed to cut its interest rate as expected by all sides will hopefully ease the impact of the subprime mortgage credit meltdown and this will in turn have a positive impact on the rupiah's exchange rate , he said .
As result , the rupiah was expected to return to the level of Rp9,000 per dollar , he said .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has reaffirmed East Java regional government-owned Bank Jatim's idA - single A minus ; stable outlook rating for the period of July 31 , 2007 to July 11 , 2008 , the agency said .
The rating was based on the bank's audited financial statement ended on December 31 , 2006 and its unaudited financial statement ended on March 31 , 2007 , Pefindo President Director Kahlil Rowter said in a statement on Tuesday .
The rating meant that the bank had stronger capability supports than any other Indonesian obligors to meet its long-term financial obligations , he said .
The downside risk to the rating pertained to an adverse change in conditions , he said .
The mark - meant that the rating was relatively weak and below its average category , he said .
PT Medco Energi Internasional Tbk , Indonesia's largest publicly-listed oil and gas firm , said Tuesday it has transferred a total of 1,689,393,006 shares or 50.695 percent of its shares issued , to its Singapore-based new subsidiary , Encore Energy Pte. Ltd .
The shares were formerly owned by Medco's subsidiaries -- Dencisco Energy Resources Pte. Ltd. and Aman Energy Resources Pte. Ltd. , MedcoEnergi Director Yani Panigoro said in a report to the Capital Market and Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency Bapepam-LK .
He said Mitsubishi Corporation , one of Japan's largest publicly-listed trading companies , had acquired 39.4 percent of Encore Energy's shares for US $ 352 million .
Given the deal , Encore and Mitsubishi had indirect ownership interest of 30.721 percent and 19.974 percent respectively in MedcoEnergi , he said .
Encore Energy remained MedcoEnergi's controlling shareholder , he said .
Rupiah plummeted on the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market on Tuesday morning to Rp9,405 / 9,415 to the US dollar compared to Rp9,375 / 9,385 at the closing session on the previous day , an observer has said .
Money market observer Edwin Sinaga said here Tuesday the Subprime Mortgage case financial crisis in the US still triggered worries especially on the prospect of the US economic growth .
Thus local market agents preferred holding US dollars to rupiahs although Bank Indonesia the central bank remained to maintain the rate of the Indonesian currency , he said .
The central bank even expected rupiah would rebound to the level of Rp9,000 to the US dollar , he said .
The Indonesian unit dropped because market agents worried about the economic condition in the US which is a potential market for export products of Asian countries , he added .
He pointed out that the Subprime Mortgage case in the US has actually not abated and even tended to continue , he said .
According to him , rupiah is still difficult to strengthen to the level of Rp9,000 to the US dollar as the global money market has yet to come to normal .
We predict that rupiah will still continue to weaken to the position of Rp9,420-Rp9,430 to the US greenback , he said .
Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia Muliaman D Hadad said the central bank's credits increased by more than 20 percent by August 2007 in view of the realization of Regional State Budgets APBD .
The increase reached more than 20 percent , he said after a hearing with Commission XI of the House of Representatives DPR in Jakarta on Tuesday .
He said that the rate of increase was normally higher in the second semester due to the realization of regional and state budgets .
In this context , he believed that the credit growth this year would reach 21-22 percent under the central bank's business plan .
He said that the credits have been growing by 20-25 trillion , but still less than June's Rp 36 trillion .
In the meantime , despite the minor obstacles posed by the still high interest rates , and which have yet to be adjusted to the declining BI Rate , the banks were still conducting their intermediary role .
The high interest rates , he said , was caused by the still high cost of fund , profit margin , and overhead cost .
Under such circumstances , he called on the banks to lower their credit interest rates , which are currently ranging from 9,6-13,8 percent .
But he said that the interest rates could be lowered in a situation in which the banking business has become increasingly competitive , so that the intermediary role played by the banks is improving .
But I must admit that the loan and credit interest rates have been lowered , but still less than hoped for , while Bank Indonesia has already familiarized the banks with these obstacles , he said .
PT Multi Prima Sejahtera company through its subsidiary , PT Multi Usaha Wisesa , has sold 50 percent of its stake in PT Lippo Melco Autoparts company to Mitsubishi Electronic Company , a Multi Prima Sejahtera spokesman said .
The transaction was done on August 24 , PT Multi Prima Sejahtera director Hery Soegiarato told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Wednesday .
Hery , however , did not mention the value of the transaction nor the purpose of the sale .
Besides PT Multi Usaha Wisesa , other subsidiaries of PT Multi Prima Sejahtera are PT Kymko Motor Sales , PT Metropolitan Sinar Indah and PT Metropolitan Tirtaperdana .
JSX data show PT Multi Prima Sejahtera is 70.29 percent controlled by the public , 25 percent by Pacific Asia Holdings Ltd. C / O PT Ciptadana Sekuritas and 4.71 percent by PT Lippo E-Net .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has reaffirmed the idBBB - rating of state-owned real estate developer PT Pembangunan Perumahan's 2004 bond worth Rp247 billion due on September 1 , 2007 .
As the company's cash balance ran into Rp30.7 billion at the end of the first half of 2007 it would need new loans to repay the maturing bond , Pefindo said in a statement on Wednesday .
The company is in the process of finalizing a loan agreement with a private bank and state bank for Rp255.1 billion in loan , it said .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has affirmed the idA - stable outlook rating of car rental firm PT Serasi Autoraya and its 2003 outstanding bond worth Rp165 billion due in July 2008 .
The rating reflected the company's strong market position , sustained income flow and safe cash flow , Pefindo said in a statement on Wednesday .
The downside risk to the rating pertained to the company's high leverage and low margins from its secondhand car business , it said .
As of June 30 , 2007 , Serasi Autoraya was 99.9975 percent owned by PT Astra International Tbk and 0.0025 percent by PT Arya Kharisma .
Fitch Ratings said on Monday it has upgraded Bank Niaga Tbk's and Bank Lippo Tbk's individual ratings to ' C / D ' from ' D ' .
At the same time Fitch also raised Bank Lippo's long-term national rating to ' AA-idn ' from ' A + idn ' , the rating agency said in a press statement .
The ratings had stable prospects , it said .
It said the increase in Bank Niaga's individual ratings reflected the bank's improving profitability , and strong and stable capitalization as a subsidiary of CIMB Group , the second largest banking group in Malaysia by assets .
Bank Niaga was expected to be able to capitalize on CIMBG's expertise particularly in the fields of risk management , treasury , corporate banking and sharia Islamic banking , it said .
Meanwhile , the increase in Lippo Bank's individual and national ratings reflected the bank's capability to maintain sound balance sheet , good quality assets and high profitability since the bank was led by the management team appointed by Khazanah .
Despite the rapid growth of lending between 2005 and 2006 , Fitch believed the low ratio of non-performing loans 1.7 percent of the total loans at the end of the first half of 2007 and strong reserves 193 percent of non-performing loans could be maintained .
The Indonesian government has issued Rp776.626 trillion worth of bonds as of March 28 , 2007 with 60.02 percent of them issued at fixed rate and 39.98 percent at variable rate .
The bonds consist of tradable securities worth Rp502.768 trillion and non-tradable securities worth Rp273.857 trillion , the Directorate General of Treasury at the Finance Ministry said in its official website on Wednesday .
The tradable securities comprise rupiah-denominated bonds worth Rp438.823 trillion and dollar-denominated bonds worth Rp63.945 trillion one dollar = Rp9,135 including US $ 1.5 billion bonds with series RI0037 issued on February 14 , 2007 .
The amount of rupiah-denominated bonds issued at fixed rate reaches Rp263.380 trillion consisting of state debenture SUN worth Rp253.863 trillion and state retail bonds ORI worth Rp9.516 trillion .
The value of rupiah-denominated bonds issued at variable rate stands at Rp175.443 trillion .
The Asian Development Bank ADB and the Indonesian Agriculture Ministry have launched a book on agricultural and urban development strategies to help achieve the vision of more prosperous and diversified urban economies by 2020 .
The book is the result of a study jointly conducted by the two agencies on urban and economic development in the past three decades and was based on the findings of technical assistance given to the country so far to support the formation of medium-term strategies in the concerned sector , the Manila-based bank said in its official website on Friday .
It said the book was an important input for the country to draw up a five-year socio-economic development plan .
PT Medco Energi International Tbk MEDC , an Indonesian oil and gas mining company , through its Medco Energi US LLC. Medco Energi US , a subsidiary fully owned by the company , has found natural gas in the federal water areas , around 75 miles of Galveston , Texas Mexico Bay , the United States .
Development Director of Medco Rashid I. Mangunkusumo in his report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSE said that the company planned to install caisson and pipe line to channel gas from the gas well to the closest facility in Brazos 451 Block .
The initial production is expected to be implemented within 90 to 120 days .
Medco Energi US owns 60 percent of the working interest and is also the operator of this project , he said .
Medco Energi US had also participated in the gas drilling project conducted by Red Willow Offshore LLC. Ignacio Colorado , and had discovered natural gas at a depth of 17 ' off Cris-K2 , around 75 miles of New Orleans , he said .
The initial production was expected to be implemented within 90 to 120 days and the Medco Energi US owned 54 percent of the working interest of that project , he said .
The gas strikes will increase Medco Energi's gas reserves by the end of 2007 , Rashid said .
Publicly-listed property firm PT Bakrieland Development Tbk said on Wednesday it posted a consolidated net profit of Rp13.91 billion in the first quarter of 2007 , jumping 543.98 percent from Rp2.16 billion in the same period last year .
Net sales in the three months to March 31 , 2007 almost doubled to Rp111.42 billion from Rp63.39 billion in the corresponding period last year , the company's quarterly consolidated financial report shows .
Operational profit surged to Rp19.65 billion in the January-March 2007 period from Rp3.67 billion in the same period a year earlier , pushing up earning per share to Rp2.48 from Rp0.39 despite an increase in net miscellaneous expenses to Rp4.99 billion from Rp2.25 billion .
In 2006 , PT Bakrieland Development Tbk and its subsidiaries posted a consolidated net profit of Rp67.608 billion , down 26.95 percent from the year before .
Publicly-listed retail company PT Matahari Putra Prima Tbk said on Tuesday its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 rose 24.43 percent to Rp15.18 billion from the same period last year on higher sales .
Net sales increased to Rp2.02 trillion in the January-March 2007 period from Rp1.68 trillion in the same period a year earlier , the company's quarterly financial report shows .
But operational profit for the first three months to the end of March 2007 fell to Rp41.39 billion from Rp58.27 billion in the corresponding period last year .
Net miscellaneous expenses dropped to Rp34.11 billion in the Janaury-March 2007 period from Rp41.98 billion the same period of last year .
Last year Matahari booked a net profit of Rp160.50 billion , 30.5 percent of which will be distributed as dividends .
Cellular phone operator PT Mobile-8 FREN in the first quarter of 2007 posted a net profit of Rp16.9 billion , up 14.18 percent from the same period of last year .
Gross income in the January-March 2007 period jumped 78.9 percent to US $ 229 billion from Rp128 billion in the same period of 2006 , FREN President Director Hidayat Thandradjaja said here Wednesday .
He said operational income climbed 93.3 percent to Rp183.9 billion in the first three months of 2007 from Rp95.1 billion in the same period last year .
The company had 2.020 million subscribers as of March 31 , 2007 , compared with around 1 million until the end of March 2006 .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said here on Wednesday the bank would strive to make the exchange rate of the country's currency stable at around Rp9,000 against the US dollar in support of the real sector .
We will try to make it stable meaning we will maintain its volatility .
He said the effort was important to avoid possible damage on the economy .
We must never let the rate change excessively within a very short period because it will disrupt business , he said .
He said BI did not intend to hold the rupiah .
What is maintained is its volatility , not its rate .
Based on the last two actions the trend is downward .
First it collected Rp16 trillion and then it dropped by a few trillions .
The trend is levelling off , downward , he said .
According to him , this was a good indication because it meant banks were expanding in the credit sector .
Expansion in the credit sector has begun although the speed is not as fast as we hoped for .
I think by the end of the year it will be faster , he said .
He said credit distribution had not yet been optimal with the lending-to-deposit ratio reaching more than 60 percent while banking funds currently invested in SBIs reached around Rp170 trillion .
Regarding the use of State Treasury Certificates SPN to replace the SBI Burhanuddin said the time still had yet to be determined .
Indeed ideally it must be used to replace the SBI like in other countries , he said .
Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said here on Wednesday following the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS report about deflation in April there was now room for the central bank to make another cut in its key intrest rate BI rate .
Because of the deflation there is room for adjusting the BI Rate as I have said before , he said .
He said he was convinced the 8.5 percent target of the BI Rate would be achieved this year as a result of developments in the country's economic conditions .
He said deflation would also make it easier for BI to achieve its interest rate cutting target .
Bank Indonesia predicts this year's inflation will be six percent plus or minus one percent .
The Central Bureau of Statistics reported recently a deflation of 0.16 percent was recorded in April making the calendar year inflation to reach 1.74 percent and the year-on-year inflation 6.29 percent .
The deflation was mainly driven by a drop in the rice price of 5.16 percent in April to contribute a deflation of 0.37 percent .
The price of red chili was also down 19.26 percent to contribute a deflation of 0.17 percent , the chief of the Central Bureau of Statitistics , Rusman Heriawan , said on Tuesday .
Sectorally contribution to the deflation came from the prices of food that dropped 1.30 percent and education , recreation and sports by 0.30 percent .
He said the office however still recorded a significant hike in the prices of processed foods , beverages , cigarettes and tobacco 0.38 percent , housing , water , electricity , gas and fuels 0.26 percent , health 0.32 percent , transport , communication and financial services 0.22 percent .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said on Thursday the country's economic growth in 2007 would be good if it reached 6 percent , the same as the net point of the central bank's projection of 5.7-6.3 percent .
I think if it the economic growth reaches the net point of 6 percent , it will be good , he said after the opening of a national development planning conference here .
The economic growth target could be achieved if it was supported by a high growth of investment , a 18-20 percent growth of bank lending and effective absorption of bank loans , he said .
Asked to comment on the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS's prediction that the economic growth in the first quarter of 2007 had exceeded the central bank's projection of 5.4 percent , he said it was possible .
Let's wait for the BPS's announcement on May 15 , he said .
The Finance Ministry has set the economic growth target for the first quarter of 2007 at 5.7-5.9 percent .
BPS chief Rusman Heriawan said earlier if the economy only expanded 6 percent in the first three months of 2007 , the government must work harder in the following quarters to achieve the economic growth target of 6.3 percent for this year .
Total fund used by publicly-listed diservied mining company PT Antam in exploration project last April was recorded at Rp12 billion , increasing by 7 percent compared to Rp11.2 billion in March , a spokesperson said .
Antam has focused is activity on nickel , gold and bauxite exploration , corporate secretary Bimo Budi Satriyo told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Monday .
Antam carried out its nickel exploration in Buli and Obi islands in Halmahera district in North Maluku as well as in Maluku and Southeast Sulawesi provinces at a total fund of Rp8.66 billion in April .
Its gold exploration has been focused in Pongkor and Garut areas in West Java , Seblat area in Bengkulu , Gunung Patah Tiga area in Jambi , Southeast Sulawesi , as well as Gember and Liman mountains in East Java with a total investment value of Rp3.2 billion last month .
The diversified mining company has focused on bauxite exploration in Tayan , Munggu Pasir , Toho and Mempawah areas in West Kalimantan with a total fund of Rp813,46 billion in whole last year 2006 .
The number of shares bought back by publicly-listed pharmaceutical firm PT Kalbe Farma has reached 31,626,500 or 3.11 percent of the maximum of 1,015,601,442 shares it is allowed to buy back , a spokesperson said .
The figure 31,626,500 was reached after Kalbe Farma bought back 437,000 shares or 874 lots back on May 9 through PT Danareksa security , president director Johannes Setijonoi told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Monday .
The 874 lots represented 5.44 percent of the total market volume which stood at 8,026,000 shares or 16,066 lots at a price of Rp1,220 per share .
The number of Kalbe Farma shares which still listed at the market was 10,156,014,422 .
The Indonesian government had released Rp779.604 trillion state bonds which comprised Rp505.747 trillion tradable securities and Rp273.857 trillion non-tradable securities as of April 19 , 2007 , a report said .
The tradable securities consist of rupiah state bond worth Rp442.117 trillion and dollar bond worth Rp63.690 trillion including the RI0037 state bond worth US $ 1.5 billion which was issued last February 14 , 2007 , Finance Ministry's Treasury Directorate General said in its website on Monday .
The government had also issued fixed-interest state bond worth Rp267.244 trillion which consisted of Rp257.728 trillion state bond and Rp9,516 trillion ORI state bond .
It had also released rupiah state bond which carried non-fixed interest rate worth Rp174.873 trillion .
The report also said some state bonds would fall due in 2007-2009 .
Meanwhile , Bank Indonesia BI noted that foreign loan outstanding position was recorded at $ 74.126 billion until December 2006 .
An official of the National Development Planning Board Bappenas said a process to monitor the use of foreign loans in fiscal 2006 was expected to be completed this month .
Hopefully , the process will be completed within the next two weeks .
Right now work is being done to finalize monitoring of loans during the last three months of 2006 , Lukita Dirmansyah Tuwo , Bappenas deputy head for development funding , told ANTARA on Monday .
According to data from Bank Indonesia central bank the position of the government's outstanding foreign loan up to December 2006 was US $ 74.126 billion .
The amount of local loans up to April 19 this year , meanwhile , reached Rp779.605 trillion as a result of the issuance of state bonds .
The biggest sources of the foreign loans were the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank ADB and the Japan Bank for International Corporation JBIC .
Asked about the Country Borrowing Strategy CBS for the period of 2006-2009 , Lukita said it was still being discussed by the Finance Ministry .
He , however , did not say when the CBS would be completed whereas on April 30 , State Minister for Development Planning / Head of Bappenas Paskah Suzetta signed a proposal of projects and programs to be funded with foreign loans and grants as stipulated in the Blue Book .
Based on Government Regulation No 2 / 2006 on Steps for Proposing Foreign Loans and / or Accepting Foreign Grant , the formulation of the Blue Book should be based on the CBG .
Previously , the corporate secretary of Bappenas said the total amount of foreign loans that would be drawn for the period 2007-2009 was US $ 10 billion or some 25 percent of the total loans proposed by all the ministries / state institutions which totaled US $ 40.1 billion .
Banking circles are optimistic that Indonesia will not undergo a monetary crisis like in 1997 because the government had suceeded in increasing the economic growth rate and curbing the inflation rate , a private banker said .
Indonesia is not likely to experience a monetary crisis as the country has big amounts of foreign exchange reserves and assets while banks are actively distributing their credits to different sectors like infrastructure , director of Bank Muamalat a private syariah bank Andy Buchari said when seeing off 365 winners of prizes to perform Umrah minor haj pilgrimage in Mecca here Monday .
He said investments in the infrastructure sector like electricity and toll road projects were already in operation and banks has financed the projects both through syndication and individual basis in the regions and Jakarta .
Economic growth has been running in the right direction .
So the prediction that Indonesia will undergo monetary crisis in 2008 is not true , he said .
Data showed Indonesia's exports in March 2007 increased by 10 percent or higher than that of last month and investment was also up by 27 percent , he said , adding that such a condition was expected to boost economic growth which was supported by the real sector .
According to him , although economic growth was hampered by various disasters in the country like the hot mudflow , floods , earthquakes and social unrest , the government had wisely coped with the problems .
Efforts to make the economy grow rapidly need time and struggles so that the economic target could be reached , Andy said .
He further said the government had improved the investment climate , encouraged banks to be more active in distributing credits to the people and spend the state budget for productive sectors .
The government had even promoted the use of funds to encourage small - and medium-scale enterprises to peform better as the sector was proven to be strong enough during the monetary crisis in 1997 , he said .
On the rupiah , he said the Indonesian currency would continue to strengthen up to Rp9,000 against the US dollar , and Bank Indonesia
the central bank would keep it at that level .
He said the rupiah would remain stable as the rate now reached below the level of Rp8,800 per US dollar as the amount of foreign funds which went to the capital market and money market was increasing .
We are optimistic that during the week , the rupiah will continue to strengthen to near the level of Rp8,700 per US dollar , he said .
He said the increase in the rupiah's value would also be triggered by a drop in the US interest rate , now reaching 5.25 percent , and Japan's central bank's plan to raise its interest rate .
Thus , the rupiah could still strengthen to a level higher than the current position , he added .
The draft of a presidential decision on the government's 2008 work plan will be issued on Tuesday , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boediono said here on Monday .
The draft presidential decision will be submitted to the House of Representatives DPR as material for debate during discussions on the 2008 State Budget , the minister said at his office .
The assumptions included the rates of economic growth at 6.8-7 percent , budget deficit at 1.7 percent of gross domestic product GDP , inflation at six percent , the rupiah's exchange rate at Rp9,300 per US dollar , Bank Indonesia's benchmark rate at 7.5-8 percent and the crude oil price at US $ 57 per barrel with a daily production of 1.034 million barrels .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said recently the target of tax realization was set at 13.8 percent of GDP in 2008 so that government's revenues would reach a total of Rp753.7 trillion .
The government's expenditures in 2008 were predicted at Rp826.9 trillion where the central government's expenditures were set at Rp559 trillion and local governments' expenditures at Rp267.9 trillion .
In the meantime , State Minister for National Development Planning / Chairman of National Development Planning Board Beppenas Paskah Suzetta said the theme of development in 2008 was Acceleration of Economic Growth to Reduce Unemployment and Poverty .
These priorities aimed among other things at increasing the 2008 Gross Fixed Capital PMTB to 15.5 percent , boosting non-oil processing industry growth to 8.4 percent , increasing non-oil exports to 14.5 percent and increasing foreign exchange revenue from the tourism sector to 15 percent .
Priority would also be given to revitalizing the agriculture , fisheries , forestry and rural development sectors with the target of raising the agricultural GDP to 3.2 percent and improving the welfare of rural people .
Other priorities included acceleration of infrasture and energy development , increasing the quality of and access to education and health , corruption eradication and acceleration of bureaucratic reforms , the building of defense capacity and security at home , mitigating and reducing disaster risks and eliminating communicable diseases .
Toll road operator PT Jasa Marga will soon issue 10-year bonds worth Rp1 trillion to refinance debts .
The bonds which had an idA + rating from local rating company Pefindo will be issued at a yield of 9.80 percent to 10.50 percent , the company's president director , Frans Sunito , said here Monday .
Acting as the underwriter of bond issuance will be PT Bahana Securites with PT Bank Mega Tbk as a trustee agent .
Jasa Marga issued bonds with a total value of Rp4.42 trillion between 1983 and 2006 .
Of the total , bonds worth Rp1.09 trillion were paid up , while the rest had not matured .
The company posted a net profit of Rp462.57 billion last year , up 50.41 percent from a year earlier .
Publicly-listed cellular phone operator company PT Mobile-8 Telecom has received a principle permit from the Communication and Informatics Ministry to set up fixed wireless telecommunication network with a limited mobility , a spokesperson has said .
The principle permit was given simultaneously to three of PT Mobile-8's subsidiaries namely PT Telekomindo Selular Raya Telesera , PT Metro Selular Nusantara Metrosel , and PT Komunikasi Selular Indonesia Komselindo , president director Hidajat Tjandradjaja told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Tuesday .
The principle permit has allowed the three Mobile 8's subsidiaries to begin setting up network as well as requesting for number sign and operational worthy test , he said .
South Korea has provided Indonesia with US $ 37 million loan through the Economic Development Cooperation Fund EDCF , a report has said .
ANTARA reported South Korean Ambassador Lee Sun-jin and Indonesian Foreign Affairs Ministry's Director General for Asia Pacific and Africa Primo Alui Joelianto signed the agreement here Tuesday .
The credit comprises $ 21 million for National Information , Communication , and Technology ICT Human Resources Development Project and $ 16 million for Batam e-Government Project .
Primo said the disbursement of the assistance was a follow-up to a joint declaration agreement on strategic partnership which was signed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and his South Korean counterpart Roh Moo-hyun on December 4 last year .
For 2006-2009 period , South Korea has made Indonesia its main recipient by allocating $ 430 million including a $ 30 million grant .
Primo said the government would focus the utilization of the assistance on economic development and poverty reduction programs .
Meanwhile , Lee Sun-jin said South Korea would get benefit from providing Indonesia with the loan as Seoul could develop bilateral ties with Jakarta and set up a better cooperation in ICT sector .
Korea wanted to help developing countries notably Indonesia to enjoy advancement in ICT sector , he said .
The soft loan is payable in 30 years and has a grace period of 10 years .
Beside Indonesia , South Korea has also extended similar loan to Vietnam and other African states .
PT Bank Central Asia Tbk BCA has set aside Rp200 billion to set up a general sharia-based bank .
We do not want to set up a sharia-based business unit but a general sharia-based bank and invest a maximum of Rp200 billion in it , BCA Vice President Director , Jahja Setiaatmadja said here on Tuesday .
He said BCA wished to acquire a bank worth Rp80 billion but all possibilities are still open .
The bank that would become BCA's sister company would only be established in 2008 .
BCA President Director Djohan Emis Setijoso said BCA had long been interested in setting up a shariah bank .
He said BCA would not acquire a BPR micro-credit bank because BCA was partly owned by foreign parties .
So BCA would acquire an old bank , he said .
He said no agreement had so far been reached regarding the bank to be acquired .
There has been no concrete agreement on it .
I do not want to tell more about it unless there has been an agreement , he said .
Besides BCA there are other banks such as BRI that have expressed interest in setting up sharia-based banks through acquisition .
The central bank at present is encouraging sharia-based banking to make it able to control five percent of the national banking market share by 2008 .
According to it , the market share of sharia-based banking in 2006 reached 1.58 percent of the total national banking market .
The Indonesian government plans to auction FR0042 reopening and FR0045 treasuary bonds in rupiah denomination at an indicative amount of Rp3 trillion on May 22 .
The head of public relations bureau of the ministry of finance , Samsuar Said , in his written statement on Tuesday said the proceeds from the auction would be used to meet part of the 2007 budget .
He said the auction would also be used to form a benchmark for 2027 and 2037 .
FR0042 carries an interest rate of 10.25 percent and will mature on July 15 , 2027 while FR0045 will have a fixed interest and mature on May 15 , 2037 .
Nominally a unit of the bonds is worth Rp1 million .
Payment of FR0042 coupons will be done on January 15 and July 15 every year and FR0054 coupons on May 15 and November 15 .
Auction participants are main dealers that have already been appointed consisting of 14 banks and four securities companies .
Bank Indonesia BI considered the growth recorded at 5.97 percent in the first quarter this year quite good and reasonable .
The 5.97 percent growth was quite good .
To BI that has set the target at six percent the growth is quite good and reasonable , deputy governor of the central bank , Aslim Tadjuddin , said here on Tuesday .
He said however that the economy should grow more than that 5.97 percent in order to create employment and reduce poverty .
The government's target is 6.3 percent .
If they wish to create employment they must not be satisfied with just fulfilling the target , he said .
The National Bureau of Statistics on Tuesday announced the country's economy grew by 5.97 percent in the first quarter this year compared to the same period last year .
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2006 the country's gross domestic product in the first quarter this year rose two percent , the head of the office , Rusman Heriawan , said .
Asked on when capital inflow into the country would end Aslim Tadjuddin said none could predict when it would end .
However everything has to be proven .
It is unacceptable for a tax to be paid below its benchmark without reason .
We have to start reducing our external loans to make our budget more healthy and to bring our debt-to-GDP Gross Domestic Product ratio back to the normal level , he said .
Established in 1992 , the CGI is a consortium of countries and institutions providing loans to Indonesia .
It was formed to replace the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia IGGI .
CGI membership is made up of 30 bilateral and multilateral creditors , including the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank , the International Monetary Fund and industrialized countries such as Japan , the United States and the United Kingdom .
The government is no longer thinking of obtaining loans from the IMF and other institutions , he said .
Asked about his meeting with IMF International Monetary Fund Executive Director Rodrigo de Rato , the president said the IMF executive had not come to Indonesia to offer new loans .
The Indonesian economy is estimated to have expanded by 6.2-6.4 percent in the third quarter of 2007 , fueled by rising consumption , better investment and growing exports , a minister said .
We estimate the economic growth in the third quarter of 2007 at 6.2-6.4 percent .
Until the end of this year , consumption will likely remain stable , and so will exports .
We hope investment will further increase , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Thursday .
She said consumption was projected to expand by 4.7-4.9 percent and investment by 8 percent in the July-September 2007 period .
The government hoped investment would record a double-digit growth in the rest of this year , she said .
Earlier , the Fiscal Policy Board of the Finance Ministry said the country's economic fundamentals in the third quarter of 2007 were relatively strong .
It seemed that pressure on the rupiah's exchange rate had shown signs of abating in early August 2007 and the local unit strengthened at Rp9,000-Rp9,100 per dollar until late September , the board said .
But then many foreign investors invested capital there so that China is now developing very rapidly , while Indonesia has been going nowhere , Markus said .
Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Purnomo Yusgiantoro said on Wednesday the planned import of liquefied natural gas LNG from Qatar was to meet medium-term needs .
We have yet to import it .
It will be imported to meet medium-term needs .
In the short run , we will try to meet state fertilizer company PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda PIM's need for gas with part of the gas supply to state fertilizer company PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur PKT , he said following a coordination meeting on gas supply at the Finance Ministry building here .
The plan to curtail gas supply to PT PKT would lead to a shortage in gas supply to the plant but this would be covered by gas imports from Qatar , he said .
The gas swap is aimed at fulfilling PT PIM's gas needs .
Because of PT PIM's need for gas , the Arun gas field cannot export .
In the short run , PT PIM's gas needs will be met by the Bontang refinary and in the medium run , it will be met by gas imports from Qatar , he said .
The minister further said the coordination meeting focused on resolving micro problems related to gas supply to industries in North Sumatra and West Java .
Publicly-listed property developer PT Bakrieland Development Tbk said on Wednesday its net profit in 2006 fell 26.95 percent to Rp67.61 billion from a year earlier due in part to a drop in miscellaneous income .
Net sales in 2006 rose to Rp319.79 billion from Rp393.23 billion the year before , according to the company's financial statement .
The increase in net sales pushed up net operating profit to Rp72.20 billion from Rp46.63 billion .
However , net miscellaneous income plunged to Rp7.15 billion from Rp79.19 billion .
As a result , earning per share fell to Rp12.07 in 2006 from Rp61.09 in 2005 .
In 2005 , the company posted a net profit of Rp92.55 billion , up 152.74 percent from a year earlier .
Qatar Islamic Bank unveiled over the weekend its plans to set up a fund worth one billion Qatari riyals $ 274.8 million to invest in stocks listed on the Doha bourse .
Qatar Islamic , the country's second-largest Islamic lender by market value , and Kuwait-based Global Investment House will manage the fund , called Sanabel , according to a statement released by the bank .
The fund would target local and foreign investors and focus on investing in companies that comply with Islamic law , which bans charging interest , alcohol , gambling and pornography .
The Doha benchmark has fallen 16 .
67 percent this year after dropping more than 35 percent in 2006 .
Investors can subscribe to the fund beginning in May with minimum subscription of 50,000 riyals , the bank said .
Qatar is home to the world's third-largest natural gas reserves .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo said on Tuesday it has affirmed its idBBB ratings for Bank Lampung and the firm's outstanding bond I / 2005 of Rp104 billion , with stable outlook .
In addition , the agency has also assigned an idBBB rating for the five-year bond II / 2007 of Rp300 billion the bank will issue later this year .
The ratings reflected the bank's sound assets and strong capitalization , Pefindo analysts Yans Simbolon and Hendro Utomo said in a statement .
The downside risk to the ratings pertains to the limited size of the bank and the concentration of its funding sources , the statement said .
Established on August 1 , 1964 as a regional development bank and starting operations in January 1966 , the bank changed its name and status into PT Bank Pembangunan Daerah Lampung in April 1999 .
As per April 2007 , the bank was 49.9 percent owned by the Lampung provincial government , 48.0 percent by district administrations and 2.1 percent by its employees .
The bank , whose assets totaled Rp2.009 trillion as per April 2007 is categorized as a small-sized bank in Indonesia .
Indonesia's private oil and gas company PT Medco Energi Internasional MEDC through its subsidiaries Medco Far East Ltd and Medco E & P Malaka MedcoEnergi and its partner Premier Oil Sumatra North BV has taken over a 100 percent of the stake in Aceh-based ConocoPhillips Ltd CPAL which was controlled by Conoco Philips .
CPAL owned 50 percent of the working interest of Block A production sharing contract KPS Block A in Aceh and the CEO director of the block , MedcoEnergi , Hilmi Panigoro said in a report to the Capital Market Supervisory Agency's Financial Institution Bapepam-LK here Wednesday .
With the signing of the taking-over of transaction on January 23 , 2007 , MedcoEnergi and Premier owned 50 percent of the stake in CPAL .
The cost MedcoEnergi has paid to take over 50 percent stake in CPAL amounts to US $ 36 million , he said .
In April 2006 MedcoEnergi as well as its partners Premier and Japan Petrolleum Exploration Co. Ltd. Japex took over 100 percent ownership of Mobil Block A MBAL from ExxonMobil Block A Investment Ltd that controlled 50 percent of the working interest of Block A .
The acquisition , Hilmi said , gave MedcoEnergi , Premier and Japex respectively 16.67 percent , 16.66 percent and 16.67 percent of the ownership of KPS Block A .
Totally , in effect , the extent of ownership of MedcoEnergi and its partners over KPS Block A increased to 41.67 percent for Medco Far East & Medco Malaka , 41.66 percent for Premier and 16.67 percent for Japex , thus MedcoEnergi becomes the operator of the KPS Block A , Hilmi said .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX said on Wednesday its unaudited net profit in the first five months of 2007 jumped to Rp96.11 billion from Rp88.375 billion throughout last year .
Net operational income in the January-May 2007 period rose to Rp184.187 billion compared to Rp275.405 billion , JSX President Director Erry Firmansyah said here Wednesday .
He said 81 percent of the net profit would be used as retained earning and the remaining 19 percent as recompenses for the boards of commissioners and directors and employees .
In its general shareholders' meeting on Wednesday the JSX decided to raise its budget allocations for the development of its trading system by Rp23.057 billion compared to Rp15.826 billion previously , he said .
The figure brings the total budget allocations for the development of trading system to Rp38.884 billion , he said .
The government will try its best to maintain the country's economic growth at the level it reached in the fourth quarter of 2006 , namely 6.1 percent , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Monday .
Economic growth reached 6.1 percent in the last quarter of 2006 .
We will try our best to keep it at the same level in 2007 , the minister told a hearing with the House Commission XI which among other things deals with financial affairs .
The minister admitted that economic growth in 2006 which reached only 5.5 percent had missed its 6.1-percent target set in the 2006 state budget .
We have seen that economic growth in the first quarter of 2006 was very low as a result of the increase in the prices of fuel oils at home .
In the long run , we would see the development , which at present fourth quarter of 2006 has reached 6.1 percent , she said .
Asked whether the 6.1-percent ecomomic gowth target set in the 2007 state budget would be changed , the minister said a target change was usually made when the state budget was revised .
That can be done when the state budget is revised , she said .
Previsouly , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS released data on economic growth in 2006 which stood at 5.5 percent , which was slightly lower than the previous growth figure of 5.6 percent .
The decline in economic growth was a result of weakening investment growth which only stood at 2.9 percent in 2006 .
Investment growth in 2005 was 10.8 percent and in 2004 it was 14.6 percent .
According to the BPS , year-on-year economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2006 stood at 6.1 percent but quarter-on-quarter economic growth experienced a contraction or a deline by 1.9 percent .
Publicly-listed Nusantara Infrastructure Company META through its subsidiary PT Bosowa Marga Nusantara , has already obtained a credit facility from PT Bank Mega , a spokesperson said .
PT Nusantara Infrastructure and Bank Mega signed an agreement on a credit facility on February 26 , META director Ramdani Basri told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Friday .
The agreement came into effect retroactively as of February 28 , he said without mentioning the amount of the credits which had been set aside for a refinancing program from PT Bosowa Marga Nusantara to Bank Mandiri .
Under the credit facility , PT Bosowa Marga Nusantara receives an interest rate of 14 percent , fine and penalty reduction from Bank Mandiri .
The Refinancing program will give a significant impact to PT Bosowa Marga Nusantara's financial report in 2007 , he said .
The Indonesian government hopes that an Economic Partnership Agreement EPA can be concluded with Japan before the end of 2007 as only a few sectors need to be agreed on in ongoing negotiations , an Indonesian diplomat said .
We are hoping all chapters in the EPA can be agreed on before late this year as the two governments are committed to stepping up their two countries' economic cooperation , head of the rconomic affairs section at the Indonesian Embassy in Tokyo , Mirza Nurhidayat , said here Monday .
Indonesia would soon follow a number of other ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations member countries which had already signed EPAs with Japan , he said , adding that the Indonesia-Japan EPA was getting first priority considering the importance of economic relations between the two countries in the future .
It has become important considering that next year Indonesia and Japan will celebrate the 50th anniversary of their bilateral relations including the two countries' economic ties , he said .
The two countries have now accomplished a number of chapters in the EPA like those on business competition , government procurement , taxation and intellectual property rights .
The EPA concerns not only the trade and investment sectors but also the cooperation sector .
Several sectors like those on energy , investment , trade and services are still under intensive discussions , he said .
Earlier , other ASEAN member countries like Singapore , Malaysia , the Philippines and Thailand had signed EPAs with Japan .
The Japanese cabinet late last week reached an agreement on free trade with Thailand .
Brunei Darussalam and Vietnam are now entering the early stage of EPA negotiations with Japan .
According to Japan's foreign ministry , the agreement was intended to accelerate trade and investment liberalization which would expand the two countries' economic activities .
Through the agreement , Japan and Thailand would scrap tariffs by more than 50 percent in their trade within ten years' time and Bangkok was expected to be more transparent and provide legal protection to Japanese investors .
Senior Deputy Bank Indonesia BI Governor Miranda Goeltom has expressed doubt that the country's household consumption growth in 2008 will reach the government-set target of 5.7-6.2 percent .
In the past five years household consumption grew only 2.3-4 percent .
Last year it expanded 4 percent .
If it the target for next year is set at more than 5 percent , the government needs to explain where the sources of the growth will come from , she said after a meeting with the House of Representatives' budget committee here on Thursday .
This does not mean that the target will not be achievable but we must make sure that the people's purchasing power is fairly high and the inflation rate is fairly low , she said .
Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanudin Abdullah said at a meeting with the House's Commission XI on finance , national development planning and non-bank financial institutions on Tuesday that the central bank had set the target of household consumption growth for this year at 4.2-5.2 percent .
He said the target was based on the people's low purchasing power and the high unemployment rate .
In our view , the people's purchasing power is still limited as can be seen from the ratio of savings to gross domestic product which is tending to decline .
The ratio of consumption credit to disposable income is fairly high , jumping to 37 percent from 22 percent previously , he said .
Bank Indonesia has projected the country's economic growth for 2008 at 6.2-6.8 percent , or lower than the government's economic growth forecast of 6.8-7.0 percent .
The central bank also has estimated investment growth in 2008 at 15-17 percent , or higher than the government's projection of 14.5-18.2 percent .
Privately-run Panin Bank posted a net profit of Rp726 billion in the third quarter of 2007 , up 42 percent from the same period last year .
Net interest income increased Rp1.8 trillion as the amount of credits channeled rose 51 percent to Rp26.8 trillion , the bank's vice president director , Rosniaty Salihin , said on Tuesday .
Fee-based income rose to Rp520 billion from Rp419 billion , causing net interest margin to increase to 6.22 percent from 4.86 percent , she said .
Total assets climbed 38 percent to Rp48.9 trillion and equities rose 7 percent to Rp7.9 trillion in the month ended on Sept 30 compared to the same period last year .
Consequently , return on assets increased to 3.23 percent , return on equities to 14.36 percent from 14.32 percent , and loan-to-deposit ratio to 96.43 percent from 77.93 percent , while capital adequacy ratio fell to 23.72 percent from 33.12 percent .
The yen was slightly weaker in Asian trade on Monday as traders waited anxiously to see whether the Bank of Japan will decide to raise interest rates later this week , dealers said .
The dollar inched up to 119.44 yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from 119.37 in New York late last Friday .
The euro firmed from 1.3155 dollars from 1.3142 and to 157.10 yen from 156.91 .
Traders were focused on the BoJ's monetary policy meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday amid thin trading , with financial markets closed in the United States and some Asian countries Monday for public holidays .
Although stronger-than-expected Japanese gross domestic product GDP figures last week were seen as boosting the chances of a rate hike to 0.5 percent , dealers are unsure whether the central bank is ready to make a move .
Government ministers are wary of an interest rate hike as they believe it could hurt the economic recovery , although they have been less vocal in their calls for steady rates than they were ahead of last month's meeting .
Many market watchers see roughly a 50-50 chance of an interest rate hike on Wednesday .
Market participants are also focused on this week's US economic news including consumer prices and the release of minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's January interest rate meeting .
The dollar was hit last week by soft housing and inflation data which fuelled speculation that the Federal Reserve is unlikely to hike interest rates soon , and if the weakness persists it could lead to rate cuts .
PT Gudang Garam , Indonesia's largest clove-flavored cigarette maker , posted a net profit of Rp404.309 billion in the first quarter of 2007 , up by around 58 percent from Rp255.780 billion in the same period last year .
Operational profit in the three months that ended on March 31 , 2007 rose to Rp703.061 billion from Rp584.087 billion in the corresponding period last year , the company's director , Edijanto said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Monday .
Net sales in the January-March 2007 period stood at Rp6.481 trillion compared to Rp6.133 trillion in the same period a year earlier .
Meanwhile , miscellaneous expenses in the first three months of 2007 fell to Rp90.274 billion from Rp177.472 billion in the corresponding period last year as the company booked a profit of Rp1.862 billion from the exchange rate after suffering a loss of Rp11.386 billion a year earlier .
The Indonesian government hopes the country's present inflation rate will drop again in the next few months with the arrival of the harvest season which is expected to happen in March and to continue until April , a spokesman said .
We hope we can lower the inflation rate again within the next few months .
We hope the prices of rice and other commodities will return to normal , Coordinating Minister for the Economy Boediono said after a coordination meeting to discuss infrastructures at the Finance Ministry Building here on Friday .
Boediono said the price of rice was a significant contributor to the inflation rate in February so the arrival of the harvest season was expected to be able to reduce the price of the commodity .
Besides rice , I do not see other commodities that contribute significantly to the inflation rate , he said .
According to the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS , inflation in February this year was recorded at 0.62 percent while the year-on-year inflation figure was recorded at 6.30 percent .
The inflation rate from January to February this year meanwhile reached 1.67 percent .
The rice price hike contributed 0.52 percent of the 0.62 percent inflation rate , the BPS deputy for economic statistics , Pietojo , said .
Month-on-month inflation was recorded at 1.04 in January this year while the year-on-year inflation figure was recorded at 6.26 percent .
According to BPS , 31 out of 45 cities in the country experienced inflation and 14 cities deflation with the highest inflation occurring in Jayapura , namely 1.76 percent and the lowest in Lhokseumawe and Sibolga , namely 0.01 percent .
The highest deflation was recorded in Gorontalo 3.62 percent and the lowest in Bengkulu 0.02 percent , he said .
On reports about declining exports and imports of capital goods Boediono said monthly analyzes of these two activities would not yield accurate results .
There are sometimes problems like disasters and other things which can also hinder exports or imports .
So let us see it not upon a monthly basis but semester by semester .
I am still optimistic our exports are still good , he said .
He said he was hopeful that the early downward trends in exports and imports would not eventually reflect the situation in the whole year .
The prices of our commodities are still reasonable .
Hopefully , these downturns will be mere temporary .
It is too risky if we have to react to data collected in just a month because they could be wrong .
So , for now , we had better remain calm , he said .
Bisnis Indonesia daily has named state-owned bank PT Bank Mandiri the most efficient bank among 130 banks existing in the country and winner of the daily's Banking Efficiency Award 2007 .
An economist of the daily Dr Rofikog Rokhim said Bank Mandiri had won the highest score for efficiency among all domestic banks whose average score was 0.85863 .
Rofikoh said the assessment was based on the banks' performance in 2006 .
However , Rockhim said although Bank Mandiri showed good performance in financial terms it had yet to show standard working performance as in this respect the bank's score was lower than it should be .
In assessments , Rofikoh said , the daily considered the banks' performance based on existing regulations and their financial performance , including Return on Equity ROE , Return on Asset ROA dan Net Interest Margin NIM as well as the banks' performance as an intermediating institution , namely their Loan-to - Deposit Ratio LDR .
Bank Mandiri was also the winner in the category fo state-owned bank and open banks .
Bank Riau , meanwhile , was named best Provincial Bank BPD , BCA Best National Private Bank , Bank Woori Indonesia Best Mixed Bank and Bank Tokyo-Mitsubishi as Best Foreign Bank .
Publicly-listed state telecommunication operator PT Telkom posted a net profit of Rp9.819 trillion in the January-September period this year , an increase by 6.5 percent from Rp9.222 trillion in a corresponding period last year , the company said .
In a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Tuesday , PT Telkom also stated the net profit of each share reached Rp491.64 and business income in the first nine months of this year was recorded at Rp45.287 trillion , jumping 21.7 percent compared to similar period last year .
The company's business income comprised Rp16.17 trillion from cellular phone operator , Rp8.475 trillion from fixed-line telephone services , Rp8.76 trillion from interconnection , and Rp10.164 trillion from data and internet services .
Indonesian oil company PT Medco Energy International is planning to divest its subsidiaries in foreign countries in the first quarter of 2008 , a company executive said .
At present , entity to oversee its subsidiaries in foreign countries had been prepared under the name of Medco Global , Medco Financial Director D Cyril Noerhadi said here on Friday .
The divestment of Medco Global shares will be carried out in two stages , namely private placement to strategic investor and through initial public offering IPO .
According to the plan , the private placement will be conducted late this year or not later than the first quarter of 2008 .
After the completion of the private placement , the corporate than carry out IPO .
Maximally the equity to be divested is just 48 percent , he said .
At present there were some parties interested in buying Medco Global's shares either the institution or consortium .
The management will select the buyers capable of giving bigger benefits , he said .
Cyril said the investors wishing to buy Medco Global's shares will not be restricted from oil / gas company or investor as well as from financial institution .
It could also hail from financial investor , as they usually have a different strategy .
However Cyril was not ready to unveil the competition of shares sold through private placement as well as IPO .
He was also reluctant to mention the total of funds Medco will gain from the corporate activity concerned .
The government hopes that the country's inflation rate in 2007 will be below 6 percent so that various macro indicators can be maintained , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said here Thursday .
We want the 2007 inflation rate to be below 6 percent .
If the inflation rate meets what we want to , I think all macro indicators can be maintained , meaning that the State Budget will not move far from the macro economic indicators , she said .
Sri Mulyani said the government's expectation of less than 6 percent inflation in 2007 is not far different from Bank Indonesia's inflation forecast of 6 , plus or minus one , percent this year .
On February's inflation of 0.62 percent which brought the year-on-year inflation to 6.30 percent , the minister said the figures were good enough .
Data from the Central Bureau for Statistics BPS show February's inflation rate reached 0.62 percent , year-on-year inflation 6.30 percent and calendar year inflation 1.67 percent .
BPS also recorded that month-on-month inflation rate in January stood at 1.04 percent , year-on-year inflation in January 6.26 percent .
State-run Bank Rakyat Indonesia BRI will not abandon the micro , small and medium enterprises sector , although it has entered the infrastructure sector and provides corporate credits , a director has said .
Although we are now also dealing infrastructure including toll road development , we will give full support to micro , small and medium enterprises as we believed that reliable infrastructure smoothen the operation of businesses and the economy , BRI's micro , small and medium enterprises director Sulaiman Arif Arianto told the Asian Bankers Summit 2007 here Sunday .
BRI , he said , is committed to allocating 80 percent of its total credits to micro , small and medium enterprises and the remaining 20 percent to corporations this year .
Twenty pct of its credits covers the building of toll roads , he said .
Sulaiman said BRI will keep on developing its portofolio in the micro-financial sector .
Today , the micro-financial sector has developed rapidly into a very dynamic and innovative financial sector .
Many international financial institutions , banks , investors and donors have been actively eyeing the mic-rofinancial sector looking at it as a profitable investment portofolio , he said .
Asia , he said , is one of the regions in the world which has become a barometer of the world's micro-financial industry .
Micro-finance which originates from social activity to help less-fortunate people and poor farmers in rural areas has developed into a financial intermediation unit similar to a bank , he said .
BRI's uniqueness in its micro-financial sector is that the bank deals with the non-bankable market segment including less-fortunate people , he said .
The Asian Bankers Summit hopefully would make bankers more prepared for the micro-financial market , he said .
Data showed that only 15 percent of over 42 million micro , small and medium enterprises in Indonesia has access to financial services .
These figures indicate that business people have good prospects in dealing with the micro-financial sector , Sulaiman said .
Aban Offshore Ltd. , an India-based oil company , formerly called Aban Lyod Chiles Offshore Ltd. ALCO , said it has completed negotiations on the purchase of PT Apexindo Pratama Duta APEX's shares .
The negotiations with PT Medco Internasional , Asian Opportunities Fund I , and CLSA Ltd to buy 52.20 percent and 32.15 percent stake in Apexindo had been completed , Aban Offshore Ltd. ' s financial director C P Gopalkrishman said in a report to the Capital Market Supervisory Body's Financial Institution Bapepam-LK here Wednesday .
Medco International controlled a 51.57 percent stake in Apexindo Pratama Duta by December 31 , 2006 .
Other shareholders namely Asian Opportunities Fund I Segregated P controlled 15.92 percent , CSA Ltd 15.92 percent and the rest is owned by the public .
Medco Energi Intersional in the middle of last year welcomed investors wanting to buy the stake in Apexindo Pratama Duta as they planned to focus on the upstream oil and gas business .
In a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX , Medco management stated it had already received a letter from Aban Lyod Chiles Offshore Ltd saying that it wished to buy all stakes in Apexindo .
Medco , however , stated it had not decided whether to accept the request until the negotiations had been completed .
Medco previously planned to use the proceeds of the sale of Apexindo's shares to develop the oil and gas business and acquire oil fields in Indonesia and overseas .
Unfortunately , in a report to the JSX last August , Medco Energi Internasional stated it did not accept Aban Lyod's request .
Diversified mining company PT Antam's total exploration fund reached Rp6.9 billion in February 2007 , increasing by 214 percent from Rp2.2 billion in the previous month , a spokesperson said .
Antam has so far focused its exploration on nickel , gold and bauxite deposits , corporate secretary Ashur Wasif told the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ here on Wednesday .
The company conducted nickel exploration in Buli and Obi islands in Halmahera district in North Maluku province as well as in Southeast Sulawesi at a cost of Rp5 billion last month .
Antam explored gold deposits in Pongkor and Garut districts West Java , Seblat area Bengkulu , Gunung Patah Tiga area Jambi , Southeast Sulawesi and East Java at a total cost of Rp1.4 billion in February .
It focused bauxite exploration in Tayan , Munggu Pasir and Mempawah areas in West Kalimantan with a total value of Rp514.3 million last month .
Number of share including those which was listed at the New York Stock Exchange NYSE state telecommunication company PT Telkom bought back stood at 185,915,500 out of 1,007,999,964 the state firm is allowed to buy back maximally , an official said .
The number was reached after PT Telkom bought 1.25 million shares back from stock markets on March 22 , vice president for investor relationship and corporate secretary Harsya Denny Suryo told the Capital Market Supervisory Agency-Financial Institution Bapepam-LK here Monday .
The number of share PT Telkom bought was recorded at 4.93 percent of total market volume of 25,359,500 shares , he said .
The transaction was carried out at a price of Rp9,480 per share in a cooperation with underwriter PT Danareksa that total number of share which have yet to be bought back was 822,084,464 .
Based on a decision which was made by a shareholders ? extraordinary meeting on December 2005 and a Bapepam regulation the buyback program of PT Telkom share lasted for 18 months until June 2007 .
The Islamic Development Bank IDB has agreed to extend a loan worth US $ 40 million to finance the operation of state paper firm PT Kertas Kraft Aceh .
The Jeddah-based bank and the Indonesian government signed the loan agreement here on Monday , the Directorate General of Treasury of the Finance Ministry said on Tuesday .
The loan which will be used for the procurement of timber materials , gas , factory spare parts and submarine pipes is part of the framework agreement signed by the bank and the Indonesian government on February 9 , 2005 to help tsunami-devastated Aceh province , it said .
Under the framework agreement , the IDB has agreed to provide US $ 239 million worth of trade financing .
The loan will be payable in three years including a grace period of six months .
The loan principal will be repaid on five midyearly instalments with the first instalments to be made 12 months after the withdrawal of the first loan and the rest will be repaid on four midyearly instalments for two years .
The rate of service fees is set as much as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR on dollar-denominated savings for 12-month deposits .
Other expenses arising from the loan agreement will be borne by the Indonesian government .
Indonesian stock rating company Pefindo has reconfirmed the idA Single A : stable outlook rating it gave to state plantation company PT Perkebunan Nusantara V for the period November 21 , 2006 - November 1 , 2007 , a company spokesman said .
The rating was given based on data and information from the state plantation firm as well as an audited financial report per December 31 , 2005 and an unaudited financial report per September 30 , 2006 , Pefindo director Ananta Wiyogo said here Tuesday .
He said a company with a idA rating had a stronger capability than other obligors to meet long-term financial obligations .
But was vulnerable to unfavorable changes in market conditions .
The U.S. dollar was steady in the upper 121 yen level Tuesday morning in Tokyo as traders continued to shun the low-yielding Japanese currency after last week's Bank of Japan decision to keep interest rates intact .
At noon , the dollar was quoted at 121.70-75 yen , compared with Monday's 5 p.m. quotes of 121.61-71 yen in New York and 121.36-38 yen in Tokyo .
The euro was quoted at $ 1.2928-2931 and 157.35-40 yen , against Monday's 5 p.m. quotes of $ 1.2945-2955 and 157.50-60 yen in New York and $ 1.2970-2972 and 157.41-45 yen in Tokyo .
In New York overnight , the dollar climbed to as high as 121.80 yen , its highest level in three years and 10 months .
Bank Niaga on Thursday decided to allocate Rp194.3 billion or 30 percent of its 2006 net profits to pay out dividends .
The dividends included interim dividends worth Rp70.6 billion paid in September 2006 , Bank Niaga President Director Hashemi Albakri said after a general meeting of the bank's shareholders here .
As such , the amount of dividends that still had to be distributed among shareholders was Rp123.7 billion , he said .
He said the dividends , equivalent to Rp10.15 per share , would be paid to the shareholders as early as on June 4 .
The bank posted a net profit of Rp648 billion last year .
In the first quarter of 2007 , its unaudited net profit stood at Rp202 billion , up by 14 percent from the same period of 2006 .
Bank Indonesia BI cut its reference rate by 25 basis points from 9.50 percent to 9.25 percent on Tuesday .
The central bank's director of public relations and strategic policies , Budi Mulia , said the reason behind the decision was the bank's strong confidence that inflation by the end of this year would be within the bank's target of six , plus or minus one , and five , plus or minus one , percent by the end of 2008 .
However , the room and the time would be more limited for us to continue with the monetary policy this year .
In the future the opportunity will be more limited because of economic structural challenges , he said .
He said the structural challenges came from the offer side condition which was too stiff to make every move to push economic growth to result in a price hike and inflation pressure .
He said the room for cutting the rate in the second semester would be more limited compared to the first semester .
Indonesian credit ratings agency PT Pefindo stated it has increased Bank Rakyat Indonesia's Bank BRI rating from idAA - to idAA and its Rp500 billion subordinated I / 2003 bond to idAA - .
The ratings reflected Bank BRI's strong franchise in financing micro-business and retail businesses and sound profitability , Pefindo stated in a statement made available here Thursday .
Pefindo , however , said the ratings have been weakened by BRI's non performing loan which has increased for the past three years although the NPL is far more moderate compared to that of its peers .
BRI which is established in 1895 is the country's oldest bank and well-known for its service to micro-and retail businesses .
With a total asset of Rp135.2 trillion per June 2006 , Bank BRI is the country's fourth largest bank in terms of market share as it controls 8.9 percent of banking industry total assets .
As of June last year , Bank BRI's assests were 57.4 percent controlled by the government and the remaining 42.6 percent by public .
Bank BRI has 38,126 employees , 4,823 offices and 982 ATMs .
It cooperates with ATM Bersama , ATM Link , and ATM BCA networks .
The decision by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to dissolve the Consultative Group on Indonesia CGI was expected to be a step to strengthen Indonesia's independence in formulating economic strategy and policies , a former minister said .
After more than 40 years since early in the New Order era , Indonesia was too dependent on the CGI formerly known as the IGGI the Inter Governmental Group on Indonbesia .
Practically , the consortium of creditors served as a cartel which forced Indonesia to follow the former's economic policies for the creditors' interest , former finance minister Rizal Ramli said here Thursday .
According to the economic expert who strongly opposed the CGI , it was no guarantee that the creditor countries' interest could meet the interest of Indonesia and the people .
Thus , he added , Indonesia was unable to become a big country in Asia because it was the consortium of the creditor countries which dictated and formulated its economic policies .
In our experience , there was a member country of the consortium which only lent Indonesia US $ 100 million but frequently required a lot of conditions on economic , political and legal affairs among other things , Ramli said .
When he was a coordinating minister for economic affairs , Ramli along with his team visited Europe and the United States only to convince the creditor countries that Indonesia needed more leniency in developing its economy without disrupting relations between the two sides .
However , the CGI served as a cartel that weakened Indonesia's bargaining position that time , he said .
The creditor countries also often used the CGI as a means to force Indonesia to buy capital goods from them with prices higher than those on the international market , he said .
In the new order era , President Soeharto liquidated the IGGI because among other reasons that the Netherlands showed dominant intervention in the forum , he said .
Unfortunately , Soeharto and his team entrusted the World Bank making it to play a greater role in formulating Indonesia's economic policies , the former minister said .
In many cases , he noted , the borrowings from the World Bank and the CGI frequently obliged Indonesia to make laws and government regulations for the creditors' interest , not in favour of the country and the people .
Among the laws were law on water privatization which obliged farmers to pay for water and law on privatization of state-owned companies , he cited .
Thus , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's courageous measure to discharge the CGI deserved a compliment in the hope the government would take other steps to make the national economy more independent , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI or the central bank has set a target of fully implementing Bank Indonesia National Clearance System SKNBI in all 106 clearance regions this year , an official said .
The implementation of SKNBI in Palembang , Bengkulu , Bandar Lampung , Palangkaraya , Jambi and Lhokseumawe has caused 96 percent of clearance transaction nationwide to get connected .
The remaining 4 percent will be connected late this year , Bank Indonesia deputy governor S. Budi Rochadi said here Thursday .
He was here to inaugurate the implementation of SKBNI in six clearance regions in Sumatra and Kalimantan .
Data from the central bank show the value of daily clearance transactions reached Rp4.7 trillion as of January 2007. About Rp4.5 trillion of the figure was processed through SKBNI .
The value of clearance transactions in Palembang , Bengkulu , Bandar Lampung , Palangkaraya , Jambi and Lkhokseumawe was recorded at a total of Rp189.7 billion with a volume of 7,916 transactions daily .
Budi said for the banking sector , the SKNBI implementation will help banks use funds more efficiently in printing air letter as well as in managing human resources , among others .
An integrated SKNBI implementation can improve efficiency in bank liquidity management as a bank will no longer monitor the position of clearance transaction settlement in all clearance regions but only observe one clearance position nationwide , he said .
Bank Indonesia is aware that the operational contribution of the transaction payment system to the economic growth is really dominant , Budi said .
PT Bank Internasional Indonesia BII has developed an ATM network by setting up an ATM BERSAMA network provided by PT Artajasa Pembayaran Elektronis Artajasa , a statement said .
Through the partnership , BII will be connected with around 11,200 ATMs from 67 banks that have already joined the ATM BERSAMA network .
BII itself has more than 700 ATMs and is also inked to ALTO network ATMs and Singapore's DBS / POSB Bank ATMs .
The broadening of the ATM network is part of our efforts to improve BII customer services as well as our services to other banks' customers utilizing our ATM network , Henry Ho said .
A national banker on Monday expressed deep regret over Bank Indonesia the central bank's decision to keep its benchmark interest rate BI Rate at 9 percent although it still had a wide room to fall further .
The lower-than-expected monthly inflation of 0.24 percent in March provided a room for the BI Rate to decline further , retail banking director of publicly listed PT Bank Mega , Kostaman Thayib said here Monday .
By keeping the BI Rate unchanged this month , Bank Indonesia appeared to take a precautionary measure to prevent capital flight , he said .
The policy however made it difficult for banks to lower their cost of fund soon , he said .
Only recently , the central bank issued a policy to loosen its credit rules to help banks increase their intermediary role as expected , he said .
But he added that the relaxation policy would be hampered following the decision to keep the BI Rate at 9 percent because banks still had to adjust their lending rates to it .
He said the lending rate , which now ranges between 13.5 percent and 14 percent , was still too high .
Ideally , it should be 12 percent .
State tin mining company PT Timah Tbk said on Tuesday its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 reached Rp314.3 billion , a huge jump from the same period last year when it was Rp11.6 billion .
The surge in net profit resulted from rising net sales in the three months ended on March 31 , 2007 to Rp1.86 trillion from Rp809.8 billion in the same period a year earlier due to improving global tin prices , the company's unaudited quarterly financial report shows .
Operational profit in the first three months of 2007 climbed to Rp523.2 billion from Rp47.3 billion in the same period last year , proping up earning per share to Rp625 from Rp23 .
PT Timah posted a net profit of Rp208.1 billion last year , up 93.6 percent from a year earlier .
The company in its recent general shareholders meeting said it would allocate 50 percent of its 2006 profit to pay out dividends .
Eight national banks took part in a tender for an Electronic Toll Collection System ETC project , an official said here Friday .
The eight banks are Bank Mandiri , BNI , BRI , BCA , Bank Danamon , Bank Niaga , Bank Mega , and Bank BII , toll road operator PT Jasa Marga director Frans S Sunito said .
The eight banks have met the requirements for joining the tender for the Jasa Marga ETC project , he said , adding that PT Jasa Marga maintained a transparent bidding process which is free from intervention .
We will give attention to the most favorable price bid and good service , he said .
ETC is similar to a prepaid card for toll road motorists which speeds up transactions at toll road gates .
Toll road users will no longer pay the normal toll road fees in cash , but use a prepaid card , Frans said .
The application of the ETC system will not cause a layoff , as employees can be transferred to newly built toll roads , he said .
ETC will be applied gradually .
However , these ETC system does not apply to all toll road gates , he said .
The rupiah in the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market on Tuesday afternoon strengthened by seven points to Rp9,075 / 9,080 against the US dollar compared to Rp9,083 / 9,085 at the closing session on Monday after the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS announced the country was experiencing a deflation of 0.16 percent .
Foreign exchange analyst at publicly-listed PT Bank Niaga Noel Chandra said here Tuesday BPS's announcement prompted local agents to buy rupiah causing the local unit to strengthen from its position the day before .
However , local agents purchased rupiah just before the closing session in the afternoon so that the positive sentiment did not make rupiah stay at higher position , he said .
He believed that the Indonesian currency could penetrate the level of Rp9,050 against the US dollar .
The rupiah in the past week stood at between the levels of Rp9,075 and Rp9,100 per US dollar because Bank Indonesia the central bank was still observing rupiah's movement on the market , he said .
According to him , the central bank had better let rupiah move according to the market's trend because with the strengthening position of the local unit to a certain level , the Indonesian fundamental macro economy was ameliorating .
However , the monetary authority might have other policies as the central bank controlled different interests especially those concerning the national economic growth , he said .
Thus , he said , the rupiah could not still approach the level of Rp9,050 per US dollar because Bank Indonesia would soon enter the market as the central bank had enough foreign exchange reserves .
However , the rupiah was gradually moving towards that position as the market gave positive supports in line with the world's economic growth changing from the US to Europe and Japan , he said .
The market was also waiting for the US central bank the Fed's plan to lower its interest rate this year to boost US economic growth although the market was still worrying about the inflation rate , he said .
The ratio of Indonesia ? s debt to its gross domestic product GDP in 2006 declined to 35 percent from 47 percent in 2005 , a World Bank official said here on Tuesday .
Muhammad Al Arif said he was optimistic Indonesia's debts which amounted to US $ 2.3 million in 2006 would continue to decrease in the future .
He said the amount of Indonesia ? s debts to the World Bank during former President Soeharto's government reached US $ 30 billion , of which about 30 percent was allegedly embezzled by individuals in his New Order regime .
Asked whether donors exercised any control over the use of their loans , Arif said the World Bank was trying to do so but its function and role were not the same as those of other donor institutions such as the International Monetary Fund IMF .
? The World Bank does not provide loans only but also tries its best to assist debtor countries in carrying out their development and in strengthening their administrations to enable them to keep corruption in check ,? he said .
In the meantime , Peter Edward , program manager for governance of the Australian Agency for International Development AusAID , said his agency had set up three pillars to assist Indonesia in fighting corruption .
The three pillars were developing relations with Indonesia in making anti-corruption reforms , helping Indonesia reduce corruption and providing incentives to promote non-corrupt behavior .
Edward did not go into the details of the amount of AusAID assistance to Indonesia but said most of the assistance was used to finance governance reform and anti-corruption efforts .
AusAID was also concentrating on financing education programs by providing scholarships to Indonesians willing to pursue studies in various institutions in Australia .
Renaldy B Martin of the Canadian International Development Agency CIDA said meanwhile his organization was active in encouraging studies on gender equality development in Indonesia .
He said CIDA had two main programs in providing assistance to Indonesia , namely creating good governance and encouraging anti-corruption efforts .
The government has lifted value added tax PPN on strategic goods , including primary products , in an effort to boost the development of the country's agricultural sector .
The decision to lift the PPN was based on Government Regulation No.7 / 2007 on the third round of amendment to Government Regulation No. 12 / 2001 on import / delivery of certain taxable and strategic goods but are exempted from PPN .
The Government Regulation , No.7 / 2007 , a copy of which was made available to ANTARA here on Monday , was decreed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on January 1 , 2007 .
Based on the new regulation , there are six groups of strategic products exempted from PPN .
capital goods in the form of machineries and factory equipment built-in or knocked down excluding spareparts
cattle , poultry and fish fodder / or raw fodder materials
agricultural products
seeds for agriculture , plantation , forestry , animal husbandry , breeding or fishery products
clean water distriubted through a pipeline and electricity except those with a capacity of over 6,600 watt .
On the agricultural products which are exempted from the PPN , the regulation stipulates that these products are those produced from agriculture , plantation and forestry .
South Korean share prices closed slightly higher Monday , extending gains for a third session , as foreign investors rushed to pick up financial stocks , dealers said .
The purchases effectively absorbed heavy programme selling and profit-taking by small investors , they said .
Dealers said the market was initially listless due to a mixed Friday close on Wall Street and a sense of fatigue after a nearly four percent gain in the past two sessions .
The KOSPI index ended up 4.81 points or 0.34 percent at 1,417.95 , after
moving between 1,409.71 and 1,420.42. Brokerages , insurers and utilities had strong gains .
State-owned Bank Rakyat Indonesia BRI has projected Rural Savings to increase by 15 percent and Rural Credits Kupedes by 20 percent in 2007 , Micro , Small and Medium Enterprises director Sulaiman Arif Arianto said .
Rural savings had reached Rp38.6 trillion while rural credits Rp43.4 trillion by December 2006 , he said on the sidelines of the drawing of national Simpedes lottery here Tuesday .
The Simpedes scheme is meant for micro entrepreneurs in rural areas while Kupedes scheme for the micro , small and medium enterprises ranging from Rp5 million to Rp50 million .
As of September 2006 , BRI's loan-to-deposit ratio LDR in rural areas has reached over 100 percent as the Kupedes scheme was larger than Simpedes scheme , Arianto said .
BRI's LDR was recorded at 77.7 percent , credit portofolio at Rp87 trillion , total credit for micro , small and medium enterprises at Rp76.05 trillion or Rp87.72 percent of BRI loan portofolio and third party fund at Rp112.17 trillion as of September 2006 .
As of September 2006 , non-performing loans issued under the Kupedes scheme reached 1.6 percent , meaning that BRI has carried out a mandate to distribute credits to the needy only , Sulaiman said .
Under the Kupedes scheme , the total of NPLs was lower than gross NPLs amounting to 4.79 percent , the NPLs of other banks reached 7.95 percent as of September 2006 .
The Asian Development Bank ADB predicts that government expenditures and investment will boost Indonesia's economic growth to 6 percent in 2007 and 6.3 percent in 2008 .
It is expected that the lowering of bank interest rates will fuel investment and consumption growth , Edgar A Cua , ADB representative in Indonesia , said here on Tuesday .
Edgar A Cua made the remarks when he presented his report on the Asian Development Projection 2007 .
He said that the Indonesian government should finish its reforms agenda in the coming six months and carry out infrastructure projects to attract investments .
The ADB representative also suggested that the government accomplish its unfinished regulations because in 2008 the focus of business makers would shift to the political sector in the run-up to the 2009 general elections .
The government should pay attention to legal certainty , regulations and transparency in order to attract investment , he said .
He said that the adoption of an investment law would not automatically attract foreign investment because its executing regulations must be prepared first .
In the meantime , ADB's project officer for small - and medium - scale businesses , Hari Purnomo , said that the ADB had projected Indonesia's inflation rate at 6.2 percent in 2007 and at 6.2 percent in 2008 .
This is on condition that the government would provide subsidy for electricity and consistently maintain a moderate level in food prices , particularly in the rice price .
He said gross capital investments would grow 25-27 percent of the Gross Domestic Product GDP or an increase by about 9 percent from the figure last year .
Export performance which greatly contributed to economic growth in 2006 , would increase slighly in 2007 from 9.2 percent in 2006 to 10 percent in 2007 .
He said the slight increase would mainly be due to slower growth in several export markets .
Market capitalization of 14 state-owned companies in the Jakarta Stock Exchange rose by almost 100 percent in the past two years from Rp250 trillion in 2004 to Rp493 trillion in 2006 .
This means that the value of the firms rose by almost 100 percent , State Minister for State Firms Sugiharto said here on Monday .
He said with their capital reaching Rp493 trillion in 2006 the 14 state companies' market share reached around 40.23 percent of the total market capitalization of around 360 companies listed at the stock exchange .
So if eventuality occurs on the companies the market index will directly be corrected , he said .
As an example he cited the recent case of PT Perusahaan Gas Negara Tbk PGN .
He said when the price of the gas distributor's shares fell early in January because the company was late to submit a report to its investors , the index at the stock exchange will immediately drop .
In view of that I must be very careful indeed in managing and producing policies for the companies , he said .
He said the sharp increase in the companies' market capitalization was the result of the improving performance of the companies and the implementation of good corporate governance in them .
The three state-owned companies that have recorded the largest market capitalization were PT Telkom Indonesia Tbk totaling Rp203.62 trillion up 17.59 pct , Bank BRI Rp62.57 trillion up 5.41 pct and Bank Mandiri Rp59.22 trillion up 5.02 pct .
The three controlled 28.02 percent of total market capitalization at the stock exchange .
The government is a mere minority shareholder in two of the 14 state companies currently listed at the Jakarta Stock Exchange namely in PT Indosat Tbk and PT Bank Bukopin Tbk .
Sugiharto said to improve their performance he had directed state companies that were considered able to compete to go public to raise funds to improve them like what he would do to PT Perkebunan Nusantara III that plans to conduct an Initial Public Offering this year to raise funds to develop crude palm oil-based industries .
Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank , has received statements of compliance from Temasek Holdings of Singapore and Khazanah Holdings of Malaysia which have controlling interests in four Indonesian banks , a BI official said .
Yes , we have , BI Banking Research and Regulation Director Halim Alamsyah said when asked by reporters whether or not BI had received statements of compliance from Temasek and Khazanah in connection with BI's single-presence policy SPP .
Under BI's SPP foreign parties cannot own a controlling stake in more than one Indonesian bank and must submit statemensts of compliance to this rule by the end of this year .
Khazanah , the holding company of CIMB Group , has an 86.52-percent stake in Bank Lippo through Santubong Investment BV , while CIMB Group itself owns 62 percent of Bank Niaga's shares through its subsidiary , Bumiputra Commerece .
Meanwhile , Temasek owns 68.16 percent of Bank Danamon's shares through its subsidiary , Asia Financial , and 56.13 percent of Bank Internasional Indonesia BII's shares through its susidiary , Sorak Financial Holdings .
Halim said Bank Indonesia would study the policies of the two holding companies with regard to their share ownership in the Indonesian banks .
Senior Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia the central bank Miranda Swaray Goeltom said she expected that investment in 2008 would reach Rp1,165 trillion to meet the economic growth target of more than 6 percent .
With the need of investment amounting to Rp1,165 trillion , banks have bigger opportunities to finance investment , she said at a function on the conferment of citations to the 2007 financial figures by a magazine in Jakarta on Tuesday .
Currently , three fourths of investment are funded by banks , she said , adding that in 2008 , banks were expected to fund more than three fourths of investment .
Such a condition could be realized if investment on other financial markets would nor grow faster .
If the other financial markets grow better , bank funding would likely lessen , she said .
Meanwhile , she said the banking sector's growth was now ameliorating .
This can be seen from banking indicators like bank credit distribution whose year on year growth reached 24.3 percent and by the end of the year it was expected to reach 25 percent .
The debt ratio over savings now reached 70 percent , the highest since the economic crisis 1998 , while the non performing loan NPL continued to drop , she said .
Miranda said the central bank was optimistic the economic growth in 2008 would remain above six percent .
She said the economic growth in 2008 could be better than that in 2007 so that the growth in the third quarter would reach 6,3 percent .
The inflation was expected to reach between 6.3-6,5 percent by the end of this year or still within the central bank's target .
In 2008 , she believed the central bank could control the inflation due to pressure mainly from import goods .
Capital Investment Coordination Board BKPM Chief M. Lutfi said investment in Indonesia is expected to grow by 15.2 percent in 2008 or faster than 12.54 percent as projected by the Finance Ministry .
Realization of investment in Indonesia next year will increase thanks to an expected improvement in the country's investment climate , Lutfi said when presenting a report on investment realization in the country in 2007 at the State Palace here on Tuesday .
Based on the report for the January 15 - September period , investment realization during the period totaled Rp125.95 trillion or about US $ 13.99 billion .
It jumped 169.02 percent from Rp74.51 trillion or US $ 8.28 billion in 2006 .
Of the total of Rp125.94 trillion , foreign investment reached Rp91.8 trillion or US $ 10.20 billion .
It increased 170 percent from Rp53.73 trillion or US $ 5.97 billion in 2006 .
Domestic investent accounted for Rp31.14 trillion or US $ 3.79 billion , or an increase by 164.29 percent from Rp20.78 trillion or US $ 2.30 billion in 2006 .
Lutfi said in order to maintain the upward trend in investment realization , Indonesia needed to improve its investment climate through among others simplifying its investment services , tax reforms , fiscal facilities , excise customs , incentives and improvements in its bureaucracy in general .
Fitch Ratings said on Friday it has upgraded the national long-term rating of state-owned Bank Negara Indonesia BNI to ' AA-idn ' AA minus idn from ' A + idn .
The outlook of the rating is stable , the rating agency said in a statement .
This rating action resolves the positive outlook that BNI's national rating was placed on in September 2007 .
At the same time , Fitch has affirmed BNI's other ratings , as follow : long-term foreign and local currency issuer default ratings at ' BB -' BB minus with a positive outlook , short-term rating at ' B ' , individual rating at ' D ' , support rating at ' 4 ' , and support rating floor at ' B +' .
The upgrade of BNI's national rating reflects its stronger capital , post its rights issue in the third quarter of 2007 , its improving but still weak loan quality , generally stable but below-average profitability relative to that of its peers .
It also takes into account its majority state-ownership 76.36 % and size 9.3 % of system assets .
BNI raised Rp3.9 trillion in new capital in a secondary share offering in August 2007 , which involved a rights issue of 1.99 billion new shares followed by a vendor sale of almost 4 billion government shares .
The rights issue increased BNI's total CAR to 17.6 % at the end of September 2007 Tier-1 : 13 % from 15.3 % at the end of 2006. However , this was still below the peer average of about 20 % Tier-1 : 15 % .
Progress in loan restructuring and more favourable macro conditions in 2007 contributed to an improvement in loan quality .
NPLs were reduced to 8.3 % of gross loans at the end of September 2007 from 10.5 % at the end of 2006 and 13.7 % at the end of 2005 .
In the first nine months of 2007 , BNI finalised restructuring of about Rp1.3 trillion of non-performing corporate loans 1.6 % of gross loans and upgraded about half to performing loans , and reduced the NPL ratio for the corporate segment to 6.4 % at the end of September 2007 from 10.7 % at the end of 2006 .
Pre-tax ROA was stable at 1.8 % in September 2007 and 2006 , as higher trading and fee income offset weaker net interest income .
Net interest margins narrowed to 4.4 % in September 2007 from 4.9 % in 2006 partly due to higher funding costs as time deposits increased to 50 % of total deposits at the end of the first quarter of 2007 from 42 % at the end of 2005 .
However , in the past six months ended September 2007 , BNI has made the effort to cut the time deposit amount and raise the proportion of low cost savings and demand deposits , resulting in better funding mix - time deposits declined to 43 % of total deposits at the end of September 2007 .
New lending has picked up , raising the share of loans to 44 % of total assets at the end of September 2007 from 37 % at the end of 2006 .
Corporate loans remained substantial at 41 % of total loans at the end of September 2007 but reduced from 72 % at end-2001 , reflecting increased exposure to better-yielding SME and consumer loans .
Bank Indonesia BI Senior Deputy Governor Miranda S Goeltom said the country's inflation rate in 2008 would show a downward trend and was expected to drop to below this year's figure .
Inflation next year will be lower than this year when the figure is estimated to range between 6.33 percent and 6.7 percent , Miranda said here on Thursday .
She said BI's studies on next year's inflation rate had used pessimistic assumptions such as high oil and commodity prices .
The downward trend in next year's inflation rate was one of the reasons why BI had lowered its benchmark rate from 8.25 percent to 8 percent , according to Miranda .
She said the United States subprime mortgage crisis had not affected Indonesia too much as the performance of the banking sector in the country had remained good .
We don't see that it affected Indonesia .
Data show that banking's performance remained good and is now even improving , she said .
She said banks' non-performing loans had dropped while their capital adequacy ratio CAR had increased .
With such resilience , it is just correct for BI to cut its interest rate in an effort to maintain the momentum for growth while continuing to play its stabilization role , she said .
Miranda said though there would be sluggishness in the global economy , Indonesia's economy would record high growth in 2008 .
Amid the slow-down of the global economy , we are confident that Indonesia's economy will experience handsome growth at 6.3 to 6.7 percent with a mid point of 6.5 percent , she added .
Investment in Indonesia hit a 40-year record high of Rp125.94 trillion US $ 13.99 billion in the first nine months of 2007 , the Capital Investment Coordination Board BKPM said .
Investment this year is the highest since 1967 when the capital investment law was put into force , BKPM Chief M. Lutfi said Tuesday .
Investment in 2007 consisted of foreign investment worth Rp91.8 trillion US $ 10.20 billion and domestic investment worth Rp31.14 trillion US $ 3.79 billion , he said .
Foreign investment jumped 170 percent from last year when it was Rp53.73 trillion US $ 5.97 billion , while domestic investment climbed 164.29 percent from Rp20.78 trillion US $ 2.30 billion last year , he said .
The 2007 investment figure is the result of the improved investment climate at home , he said .
He said paper , paper-related goods and plastic industries were the biggest recipient of domestic investment in 2007 with the funds sunk in those industries 8 projects totaling Rp14.54 trillion .
Food industry came in second with Rp5.13 trillion invested in 24 projects , he said .
Trailing behind in third place were base metal , machinery and electronic industries in which 17 projects absorbed a total of Rp3.54 trillion in funds , he said .
Meanwhile , the transportation , warehousing , and telecommunication sectors took the biggest amount of foreign investment with Rp29.61 trillion in 41 projects .
This was followed by base chemical , chemical goods and pharmaceutical industries where 32 projects absorbed a total of Rp14.49 trillion .
West Java topped the list of domestic investment destinations with a value of Rp11.26 trillion in 33 projects , followed by Jambi Rp4.47 trillion in 2 projects , Jakarta Rp4.19 trillion in 32 projects , Riau Rp3.09 trillion in 11 projects , and Southeast Sulawesi Rp2.76 trillion in 1 project .
Jakarta remained the most attractive destination to foreign investment with Rp41.94 trillion in 349 projects , followed by East Java Rp15.2 trillion in 62 projects , West Java Rp11.81 trillion in 240 projects , Riau Rp6.51 trillion in 10 projects , and Banten Rp5.81 trillion in 76 projects .
Middle Eastern businessmen are keen to invest in Indonesia without any hidden agenda , the chairman of the Indonesian Syaria Bank Association Asbisindo , M Riawan Amin , said here Thursday .
With their huge funds , they will leave the US and the European Union , and are ready to enter Asia , including Indonesia , for business without any political agenda , Riawan told ANTARA .
As the world's largest Muslim country with the same cultural background Indonesia should take the opportunity , he added .
Citing an example , he said the Islamic Development Bank IDB had provided US $ 10 billion in funds for poverty eradication through payment of tithes .
IDB is a stakeholder in Bank Muamalat Indonesia BMI .
However , the Middle Eastern businessman's plan to invest in Indonesia could not be realized soon due to the absence of a law on Sukuk obligation in Islamic law , rampant corruption and double taxation risks .
We will have to do many things to attract them .
Moreover , syariah banking has yet to become a national agenda , Riawan said .
Some Asian countries such as Malaysia , Singapore and Hong Kong had become main competitors to Indonesia in attracting investment from the Middle East , he noted .
Singapore and Hong Kong which had different cultural background with the Middle East , are planning to be centers for syariah banking .
Malaysia had offered facilities , including tax incentives , to lure Middle Eastern investors .
To date , Indonesian investment in the Middle East is made through third parties such as Singapore .
Riawan , who is also president director of Bank Muamalat Indonesia BMI , said the bank's presence was expected to lessen investors' doubts about Indonesia's business potentials and prospects .
The bank's customers had increased from 1.2 million in 2006 to 1.7 million in 2007 .
Individuals' savings at the bank increased from Rp6.8 trillion to Rp8.2 trillion during the same period .
State telecommunication operator Indosat said on Thursday its net profit in the first nine months of 2007 jumped 56 percent to Rp1.445 trillion from a year earlier .
Operating income in the nine months ended Sept 30 stood at Rp11.88 trillion , propping up operating profit to Rp3.204 trillion , President Director Johnny Swandi Sjam said .
The company's operating income and operating profit grew 34 percent and 31 percent respectively compared to the same period last year , he said .
Cellular services , fixed data services multimedia , internet and data communication services and fixed telephone services contributed 77 percent , 13 percent and 10 percent respectively to the company's operating income , he said .
Operating income from cellular services grew 38 percent compared to the same period last year with the number of cellular subscribers rising 54.8 percent to 22 million .
Meanwhile , operating income from fixed data services grew 11 percent to Rp1.568 trillion and that from fixed phone services 43 percent to Rp1.165 trillion compared to the same period last year .
Indonesian credit rating agency Pefindo has affirmed its idA ratings for Bank Jabar's bonds IV / 2004 of Rp1 trillion and bonds V / 2006 of Rp1 trillion .
Outlook for those ratings remained stable , Pefindo said in a statement issued on Friday .
The ratings reflected the bank's strong and growing market position , superior asset quality , and potentially improving capitalization after initial public offering IPO scheduled for the first quarter of 2008 , it said .
However , those strengths had been offset by the bank's concentrated funding sources and tough competition in the banking industry , it said .
Established on May 20 , 1961 , Bank Jabar is currently the country's largest regional development bank with 133 offices mostly located in West Java and Banten provinces .
As of the first half of 2007 , the bank was 81 percent owned by the West Java provincial government and 19 percent by the Banten provincial government .
A synergy between Bank Indonesia BI and the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kadin can speed up the resurrection of business world notably micro , small and medium enterprises UMKM , central bank Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah has said .
Burhanuddin made the statement after he signed a memorandum of understanding to set up Kadin-BI cooperation forum FK2BI on the sidelines of a Kadin's national leadership meeting .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and some ministers witnessed the signing of the MoU between BI governor Burhanuddin Abdullah and Kadin chairman MS Hidayat .
The central bank has targeted that total UMKM credit expansion will reach Rp87.62 trillion in 2007 , Rp98.3 trillion in 2008 , and Rp117.96 trillion in 2009 .
A BI survey showed UMKM credit was 65 percent targeted for trade and service companies and 35 percent for manufacturing and agricultural sectors .
Developing of UMKM sector should be focused on manufacturing and agricultural affairs that the micro small and medium business can play bigger role in boosting economic growth and in creating job fields , he said .
Therefore , Bank Indonesia will make consultation forums with business sectors and banks as well as develop BI offices into business and economic information centers in regions , Burhanuddin said .
Bank Indonesia , he said , will likewise empower credit information bureau in a bid to increase banking risk management capability and risk assessment effectiveness including BI regulation amendment on intermediation function development .
Meanwhile , state Bank Mandiri director Agus Martowardoyo said his office welcomes the information cooperation between BI and Kadin as it will facilitate monitoring system on banks and certain clients notably UMKMs which are grouped in Kadin .
The rupiah in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market on Monday morning weakened by 50 points to Rp9,170 / 9,175 from Rp9,120 / 9,140 against the US dollar over the weekend as market players rushed to buy dollars .
The rupiah could still not reach the level of Rp9,100 per dollar , a foreign exchange analyst of PT Bank Saudara a private bank , Rully Nova , said here Monday , adding that if the rupiah strengthened on Monday it might weaken on Tuesday .
However , he said , the local unit was still in a stable position as it had remained in a range between Rp9,100 and Rp9,200 against the US dollar .
He sad its was still possible for the rupiah to appreciate with the stable position of Bank Indonesia the central bank's interest rate at 8.25 percent and The Fed's plan to lower its interest rate later this month .
We are optimistic that the rupiah will return to the level of Rp9,000 per US dollar if The Fed lowers its interest rate again , he said .
He further said the rupiah should actually have strengthened to less than Rp9,100 against the US currency as a result of BI's efforts to curb the inflation rate which had tended to increase .
If the rupiah strengthens , the cost of imports will decrease and thus offset the increase in world crude oil prices , he said .
He said the government had better reduce its subsidy cost to zero percent so that it would not burden the state budget and the rupiah would not be pressured further .
However , it was until now still difficult for the Indonesian currency to reach the level of less than Rp9,100 per US dollar as market players had their own perception on the matter , the analyst said .
Meanwhile , the Japanese yen on Monday strengthened against the US dollar to 110.22 compared to 110.53 on the previous day , but the US greenback unappreciated against the euro to 1.4663 from 1.4753 , he said .
PT Gudang Garam Tbk , Indonesia's largest publicly-listed cigarette maker , posted a net profit of Rp1.217 trillion in the first nine months of 2007 , up 35.2 percent from the same period last year .
Sales rose 6 percent to Rp21.79 trillion , according to the company's financial report published by the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Tuesday .
Operating profit increased to Rp2.035 trillion from Rp1.812 trillion .
Japanese chemical company Sumitomo Shoji Chemicals Co. Ltd SCC will take part in a bid to purchase all of 6,260,500 shares of PT Summitplast SMPL at a price of Rp1,050 per share , a spokesperson said .
Sumitomo Shoji Chemicals has already informed the Capital Market Supervisory Board-Financial Institution Bapepam-LK of the plan on February 9 , SCC investment team manager Kohei Takemoto told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Wednesday .
The SCC's statement on the proposed bid will be announced officially after Bapepam give effective response to the statement , he said .
The price of Rp1,050 which has been offered by SCC to purchase each of SMPL stock is higher than market's highest price of Rp295 in the bourse in a 90-day trading period before January 3 , 2007 .
SCC made the bid after learning that PT Summitplast will be delisted from the Jakarta Stock Exchange and turn the corporate status from an open into a closed company , Takemoto said .
The bid offer period will take place on February 27-29 , 2007 he said adding that repayment period is scheduled on April 4 , 2007 in cooperation with PT Nikko Securities Indonesia as an underwriter .
PT Bank International Indonesia Tbk BII has been named as a main dealer in the Indonesian bond market by the Finance Ministry on behalf of the Indonesian government , the bank's chief said .
After getting this trust we hope to be able to support the government's programs to improve the liquidity of the government bond market and the Indonesian Retail Obligation ORI , BII President Director Henry Ho said in a press statement here on Saturday .
He said in line with Finance Minister's Regulation No. 144 / PMK.08 / 2006 main dealers will get some benefits in the government bond market such as exclusive rights to participate in bidding of state bonds in the inaugural market and in bidding of buyback and debt switch state bonds .
We will also get exclusive rights in receiving credit facilities from state bonds and added value in the selection of becoming a sales agent of the Indonesian Retail Obligation ORI .
We will also have access to certain kinds of information from the Directorate General of Debt Management concerning policy on and the operations of debt management , he said .
BII was also named by the government as a sales agent of the second ORI issued on March 28 , 2007 , he said .
This trust has also strengthened our position as a bank with a large network and customer base , he said .
Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves in the month ended on Feb 28 rose 5.6 percent to US $ 45.690 billion from US $ 43.266 billion the month before .
The rupiah's mid exchange rate against the dollar meanwhile stood at Rp9,170 per dollar , the central bank said in its official website on Monday .
Deputy Bank Indonesia Governor Aslim Tadjudin earlier predicted that the country's foreign exchange reserves by the end of 2007 would exceed US $ 50 billion , up from the central bank's forecast of US $ 47 billion early this year .
He said the increase was due in part to the state receipts from the issue of global bonds worth US $ 1.5 billion last month .
Insurance company PT Asuransi Central Asia ACA is set to bid for a 31.24 percent stake in publicly-listed insurance firm PT Asuransi Harta Aman Pratama Tbk AHAP for Rp126 per share .
PT AHAP is currently 19.76 percent owned by PT ACA , 17.66 percent by PT Asian Insurance International Ltd. , 19 percent by PT Dinamika Usaha Jaya , 10 percent by businessman Kuan Huay Lin , 11.54 percent by PT Net Sekuritas and 22.04 percent by public investors , PT ACA said in a report on Monday .
The bidding will start on February 5 and end on April 5 with the deal expected to be in place on April 11 .
The Indonesian National Importers Association GINSI is uncertain about the government implementing the National Single Window NSW system or integrated inspection of imported goods as of December this year .
I am uncertain about the implementation of NSW system beginning in December 2007 , GINSI chairman Amiruddin Suad told ANTARA here on Monday .
Amiruddin was responding to a statement made recently by director general of customs and excise of the Finance Ministry , Anwar Suprijadi , that the implementation of NSW had been postponed until December from March as originally planned .
Anwar Suprijadi , former state minister for administrative reforms , said the postponement was intended to enable customs and excise authorities to make better preparations .
However , the GINSI chairman said the postponement was chiefly caused by unreadiness of various institutions outside the Directorate General of Customs and Excise such as the Food and Drug Control Board , the Health Ministry , the Trade Ministry and the Agriculture Ministry's quarantine .
The Food and Drug Control Board has so far been responsible for deciding whether or not certain food and drug could be imported from Indonesia's trade partners .
The jobs of those institutions should have been combined with the NSW system , Amiruddin Suad said , adding that importers had to report to various institutions if they wanted to import goods .
He pointed out that if an importer wanted to import food or medicine , he or she should report it to the Food and Drug Control Board .
Amiruddin Suad said the NSW system had been applied in a number of countries , including Singapore .
The NSW system we apply is similar to that in Singapore , and in reality the flow of imported goods into the country runs smoothly , Amiruddin said .
Asked if the postponement has hampered inspection of imported goods by customs and excise officers , Amiruddin said there was no problem because it used Electronic Data Interchange EDI system .
Telecommunication company Mobile-8 and Samsung Electronics have signed a cooperation agreement to develop telecommunication networks in many regions in Indonesia , a spokesperson said .
Mobile-8 will invest US $ 375 million in the project , Mobile-8 Senior President / Finance and Procurement Head Sintawati Halim said here Monday .
Hopefully , the cooperation will increase the number of Mobile-8 subscribers to 20 million by 2012 in and outside Java , she said .
Mobile-8 will embark on the construction of new infrastructure in the first quarter of this year .
We are optimistic that the project will be completed on time and will raise the number of our subscribers by four million by the end of this year , she said .
Sintawati expressed hope that the cooperation with Samsung Electronics will expand the Mobile-8 service area on Java and Bali islands from 70 percent in 2006 to 90 percent in 2007 as well as from 42 percent in 2006 to 70 percent in 2007 around the country .
Indonesia's tax receipts in the two months ended on Feb 28 reached Rp40 trillion-Rp50 trillion out of the target of Rp452.556 trillion for 2007 , a Finance Ministry official said .
The tax receipts came from value added tax and income tax , exclusive of foreign exchange receipts , the ministry's director general of state treasury , Herry Purnomo , said on Monday .
Excise receipts in the first two months of 2007 meanwhile exceeded Rp10 trillion , he said .
However , the state budget spending on goods fell short of expectation , reaching about 5 percent , he said .
Overall , the state budget is still manageable as spending is low , he said .
Under Law No.18 / 2006 on the 2007 State Budget , the government and the House of Representatives are expecting a 23.51 percent rise in tax receipts in 2007 to Rp452.556 trillion from the target set in the 2006 State Budget .
The expected tax receipts will consist of Rp261.698 trillion from income tax , Rp161.044 trillion from value added tax , Rp21.267 trillion from property tax , Rp5.389 trillion from receipts from land and building titles and Rp3.157 trillion from other taxes .
Heavy-duty equipment provider PT Apexindo Pratama Duta APEX has won a US $ 13.9-million contract on a number of onshore drilling projects to be carried out over a period of six months , a spokesperson said .
The contract is an extension of an earlier one in which the company provided onshore drilling services for two VICO rigs , namely Rig 9 and Rig 10 , in East Kalimantan , APEX director Hertriono Kartowisastro told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Thursday .
He said APEX had also won three other contracts to carry out domestic drilling activities .
The three contracts comprised a $ 1.6 million commitment for a project in Tungkal in Jambi province , $ 2.5 million from Lundin Blora BV to drill rig 8 and $ 3.5 million from JOB Pertamina and Medco Tomori to drill rig 2 in Tomori block , Sulawesi .
Our success in getting the four contracts shows the on-shore drilling market in Indonesia is quite promising , he said .
Until recently , APEX's business mostly involved offshore drilling projects .
APEX will continue to participate actively in both onshore and offshore drilling project tenders in order to strengthen its position as a leading drilling contractor , Hertriono said .
Bank Indonesia will ease its monetary rules including lowering the BI Rate and loosening conditions for application of credits to improve the banks' intermediary role to boost economic developement , the central bank governor , Burhanuddin Abdullah , said here on Thursday .
To facilitate it , some regulations would be relaxed , he said after meeeting with Vice President Jusuf Kalla and banking officials .
The meeting was also attended by Coordinating Minister for Economy Boediono , State Minister for State Firms Sugiharto and chairman of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kadin MS Hidayat .
Regarding the BI Rate , Burhanuddin said BI would monitor closely internal and external developments including the development of inflation. If it is still possible , BI would lower the BI Rate after monitoring month-to-month developments , he said .
He said beginning on April 1 several monetary regulations would issued .
Unlike before , he said the provision of credits to micro - , small - and medium-scale businesses would later be based only upon repayment and timely payment capability. At present credits are provided on the basis of three pillars namely repayment and timely payment capability , in addition to business prospects and financial condition of debtors .
effective as of April 1 , banks are already able to start implementing it now , Burhanuddin said .
The credits for small - and medium-scale businesses have been raised from a maximum of Rp500 million to Rp20 billion for four banks that have a strong risk management. Burhanuddin declined to name the banks .
He said the total of 98 banks with acceptable risk management would be allowed to provide a maximum of Rp1 billion per customer to enable them to net not only small but also medium customers .
Burhanuddin said companies that had problems caused by macro-economic conditions , crisis and others would now be allowed to seek credits again .
He said the government , the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Bank Indonesia would see which sectors would be focused on development .
There are 10 sectors that have been on the talk .
What is urgent is infrastructure .
Others will be discussed later .
All the regulations , God willing , will be completed on April 1 , he said .
State-owned pharmaceutical company PT Kimia Farma Persero Tbk KAEF here on Friday announced that its net profit in 2006 dropped to Rp43.99 billion , or by 16.73 percent , from Rp52.83 billion in 2005 .
The company's annual financial report showed that the decrease in its net profit was mainly due to an increase in its operational cost .
The company's net sales , in fact , increased from Rp1.82 trillion in 2005 to Rp2.19 trillion in 2006 .
However , the gross profits of Kimia Farma decreased from Rp84.72 billion to Rp60.63 billion .
Last year , the pharmaceutical company also gained an additional net income amounting to Rp7 billion , an improvement compared to the situation in 2005 , when the company had to bear additional expenses worth Rp2.23 billion .
However , due to the decrease in its net profit , the company's Earning Per Share EPS also dropped from Rp9.51 to Rp7.92 .
Meanwhile , Kimia Farma's share in yesterday's trading at the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSE was closed at Rp166 per share .
Data on five percent or more share holders from the Jakarta Stock Exchange on January 31 , 2007 , showed that the Indonesian Government was still the majority share holder of PT Kimia Farma Tbk , namely 90.03 percent .
PT Wahana Ottomitra Multiartha WOM Finance Tbk , an automotive finance company , here on Friday launched a public offer of WOM Finance's Obligation IV for 2007 worth up to Rp1 trillion at a fixed interest rate .
The debentures will be issued in three series of A , B and C , which respectively has a grace period of 3 , 4 , and 5 years .
The number of each series of the bonds and the interest coupon would be determined later , the company said .
The offer of the bonds will take place from May 4 to 8 , 2007 and will be listed in the Surabaya Stock Exchange SSE on May 24 , 2007 .
Acting as a trustee is PT Bank Permata Tbk , while PT Investindo Nusantara Sekuritas , PT Danareksa Sekuritas , and PT DBS Vickers Securities Indonesia have been appointed as the underwriters of the debentures .
According to data from the Stock Administration Bureau of PT Sinartama Gunita of February 28 , 2007 , the share holders of WOM Finance consisted of PT Bank Internasional Indonesia Tbk 46.99 percent , International Finance Corp. , the business unit of the World Bank , 15.01 percent , DBS Nominees Pte. Ltd. 5.00 percent and the general public 33.00 percent .
Publicly-listed cement maker PT Holcim Indonesia Tbk , formerly PT Semen Cibinong Tbk , announced on Friday it posted a net consolidated profit of Rp175.94 billion last year after suffering a loss of Rp334.08 billion a year earlier .
The company's annual financial statement shows the net profit was mostly fueled by net miscellaneous income rather than by operational income .
Net sales fell to Rp2.993 trillion in 2006 from Rp3.017 trillion the year before and accordingly , gross profit dropped to Rp637.16 billion from Rp719.59 billion .
Operational profit plunged to Rp6.18 billion from Rp143.09 billion due to a surge in operating expenses .
By Dec 31 , 2006 , the company's current liabilities totaled Rp855.82 billion , up from Rp665.35 billion in the same period of 2005 , while its current assets fell to Rp1.049 trillion from Rp1.114 trillion .
Its total equities rose to Rp2.099 trillion in the year ended on Dec 31 , 2006 compared to Rp1.842 trillion in the same period of 2005 .
However , its total assets declined to Rp7.065 trillion from Rp7.324 trillion .
To achieve the government's 6.3 economic growth target this year , the investment growth rate should reach 12.3 percent , Finance Minsiter Sri Mulyani Indrawati said .
According to our calculations , if we want our economic growth to reach 6.3 percent in 2007 , investment should grow by 12.3 percent , the minister said here on Friday .
She said the desired investment growth figure could be reached if public consumption grew by 5.1 percent , government consumption / expenditure by 8.9 percent and exports increased by 9.9 percent as in 2006 .
Export growth in 2006 was quite good but the reverse had happened with investment growth , she said .
Investment growth is , indeed , related to the real sector .
The real sector's growth reached only 12.91 percent last year compared with 10.8 percent to 2005 , she said .
She said to date the manufacturing sector had contributed much to investment growth at home but in the past two years 2005 and 2006 , the sector only grew by 4.6 percent and 4.7 percent .
The manufacturing sector is traditionally the main contributor to investment growth .
Besides , the sector also provides many job opportunities , she said .
Before the 1998 crisis , the manufacturing sector's growth exceeded 8 percent but to support economic growth of above 6 percent in 2007 , the sector should grow by at least 7.2 percent , she said .
And thus , to support investment growth of 12.3 percent , investment should be channeled to the manufacturing sector and other sectors such as construction , trade , hotels and restaurants and transportation , she added .
Sri further said to reach investment growth of 12.3 percent , a fixed capital gross of Rp989 trillion would be needed .
The government along with some state companies BUMN through its public private partnership PPP program would contribute some 35 percent of the amount , she added .
The banking sector , meanwhile , was expected to contribute some Rp96 trillion-Rp100 trillion or some 60 percent , she added .
The rest was expected to come from foreign and local capital investment through the money market and others , she said .
PT Bank Mandiri BMRI is preparing a credit scheme worth Rp11 trillion to help finance investment in the plantation sector in the 2007-2010 period , a BMRI director said here on Friday .
Director for Micro & Retail Banking Affairs of BMRI , Budi Gunardi , said in press statment that the funds would among others be used to develop 321,268 hectares of oil palm plantations .
According to Budi , the Rp11 trillion could meet the need for credit of 80,000 plasm farmers .
Besides , oil palm plantations , the credits were also intended to develop ccoa and rubber plantations .
Up to now , the amount of credits Bank Mandiri had provided reached Rp14.39 trillion , of which Rp11.3 trillion were provided for large-scale plantations and people's nucleus plantations while Rp3.09 trillion had been extended to cooperatives and plasm farmers .
The bank had also distributed Rp7.14 trillion in credits to industries processing plantation products .
Bank Mandiri's credits for plantations accounted for 36.43 percent of the country's total credits for the plantation sector , which , based on Bank Indonesia data , reached Rp39.5 trillion .
The president director of state-owned Bank Mandiri , Agus Martowardoyo , said here on Friday he was optimistic the growth of the bank's credits would surpass the 20 percent target following the government's plan to ease the requirements for obtaining credits .
We plan to conduct a budgetary revision in June .
If the condition is as it is now , synchronization has to be done .
Increase in the number of credits may surpass 20 percent , he said on the sidelines of a seminar on agrobusiness .
Bank Mandiri may move from micro-businesses to corporations .
In short it may enter into all segments .
In every segment we expect to be able to control 25 to 30 percent of the market , he said .
Regarding credits in the first quarter , he predicted that credit distribution would likely be slow because of the recent disasters such as floods .
We hope things would be better in the second quarter , he said .
On the occasion , he said Bank Mandiri had provided credits worth Rp11 trillion to finance investment in the plantation sector for 2007 to 2010 .
Bank Mandiri's director of micro and retail banking Budi Gunardi said the funds would be used for the development of 321,268 hectares of people's oil palm plantations that would be distributed in stages according to needs .
He said the funds would be for 80,000 farmers .
The plantations to be financed include oil palm , cacao and rubber plantations , he said .
Until now the bank has distributed Rp14.39 trillion to the plantation sector .
Bank Mandiri's credits for the plantation sector had reached 36.43 percent of the national credits to the sector reaching Rp39.5 trillion , Bank Indonesia said .
Budi was optimistic the plantation business would develop considering the smooth repayment of the credits involved .
So far the repayment of credits in the oil palm plantation sector has been smooth .
The percentage of non-performing loans in this sector is relatively small compared to the NPLs in other sectors , he said .
The inflation rate in March will be 0.5 prcent or slghtly lower than in February when the figure was recorded at 0.62 percent , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
It is a public secret that if the rice price is under control , the inflation rate will not rise .
I see the inflation rate in March will not be higher than in the previous month .
The prices of other commodities seem not to fluctuate too much either , BPS Head Rusman Herawan said at the Finance Ministry here Tuesday .
Rusman said that the rice price in the third week of March , 2007 , had tended to decrease compared to that in the second week of the same month although it was still on a high level .
On the average , the rice price is still high nationally , namely , Rp6,000 per kg , he said .
In the fourth week of March , 2007 , there were indications that the rice price would drop although not significantly but it would much influence the inflation rate , he said .
Rusman said other than rice , there was no commodity whose price had fluctuated until now .
Let's see the prices of non-rice commodities .
The price of sugar cane , for instance , seems to decrease and there is no indication that the sugar price will increase .
I think March is the most quiet month in terms of inflation among other things , he said .
BPS recorded the inflation rate in February 2007 at 0.62 percent and the year-on-year inflation rate was recorded at 6.30 percent , while based on the calendar year , the inflation rate was 1.67 percent .
In January , 2007 , the inflation rate was recorded at 1.04 percent on a month-to-month basis and it was 6.26 percent on a year-on-year basis .
Publicly-listed instant noodle maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur Tbk said on Wednesday it will issue Rp1.5 trillion worth of five-year bonds in May mainly to repay its dollar-denominated debts .
Indofood will use 62 percent of the proceeds from its bond issuance to repay its debts amounting to US $ 100 million , the company said in a condensed prospectus .
The remaining 38 percent , around Rp570 billion , will be used to repay its rupiah-denominated bank borrowings .
The bonds will be offered to the public on May 1-3 and listed at the Surabaya Stock Exchange on May 10 .
The company has appointed PT Mandiri Securities , PT Danareksa , PT Trimegah Securities and PT Danatama Makmur as underwriters of the bond issuance .
International rating agency Standard & Poor's Rating Services said a divestment of PT Medco Energi Internasional MEDC's subsidiary , PT Medco E & P Brantas , will not affect the company's rating and prospects .
Medco announced last week it agreed on a plan to sell all its stake in Medco Brantas to Prakarsa Group at US $ 100 , S & P said here Wednesday .
Medco Brantas controls 32 percent of Brantas gas block concession .
Brantas block is a gas well in Porong area , East Java , which has been spewing hotmud since May last year .
The mudflow has inundated many villages and farmland in Porong area as well as rendered hundreds of thousands of people homeless .
S & P said the sale of Medco Brantas will end the uncertainty in Medco's final obligation concerning the uncontrollable mudflow .
Medco has prepared $ 22 million in the third quarter of 2006 to cope with the mudflow .
Medco hoped that it will no longer be bothered with problems stemming from the mudflow following the sale of Medco Brantas .
According to S & P , Medco's rating is still negative due to its increasing debt .
The international rating agency , however , stated that Medco may have a good prospect as long as it raises its reserve and production as well as secured a guarantee for its latest contract .
The Japanese government has already provided the Indonesian government with 99.811 billion yen or Rp7.718 trillion in loan , the Japanese Embassy said in a dispatch made available here Wednesday .
The loan which was approved by the Japanese Embassy's charge d'affaires ad-interim Satoru Satoh and Indonesian Foreign Affairs Ministry's management expert staff M. Ibnu Said on March 28 was designed to finance nine infrastructure projects in the country , the statement said .
The agreement on the new loan brought the Japanese loan to Indonesia to 4.166 trillion yen or Rp322.127 trillion , it said .
The loan is payable in 30 to 40 years and carries a 0.4 to 1.5 percent interest .
The government has set the deficit in the 2008 state budget at 1.7 percent or around Rp73.1 trillion of the gross domestic product GDP which is estimated at Rp753.7 trillion assuming economic growth reaches 6.8 percent , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said .
The minister announced the government's decision after a cabinet meeting led by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono at the State Secretariat here on Wednesday .
Almost all cabinet members as well as senior officials of ministries and other government institutions attended the meeting .
Sri Mulyani said the government had set the 2008 budget and other macro-economic figures based on government working plans and projections made in the 2007 state budget .
The projection of economic growth in 2007 which is set at 6.3 percent is a heavy challenge although until today almost all quarters think growth could only reach around 6.1 percent .
It indeed needs hard work , she said .
She said if the rate of inflation in 2007 was predicted to reach 6.5 to seven percent it was expected to be lower or around six percent in 2008 .
The exchange rate of the country's currency was also expected to remain stable at Rp9,300 against the US dollar while the BI Rate was expected to continue to drop to between 7.5 and 8 percent from around 8 to 8.5 percent now in line with a downward rend in the inflation rate .
The government had set the crude oil price at around US $ 57 per barrel in the 2008 state budget with the country's oil production reaching 1.034 million barrels per day or up from 1.015 million barrels per day in 2007 .
So foreign exchange reserves in 2008 are predicted to reach Rp60 trilion , she said .
Regarding income from taxes , the minister said the government hoped the tax ratio in 2008 would reach 13.5 percent of GDP , down from 14.4 percent projected for the 2007 budget .
She said the drop followed a change in the calculation bases for determining the GDP .
The Central Bureau of Statistics revised the GDP figures from 2000 to 2006 so that the GDP had increased from Rp3,531 trillion to Rp3,796 or by around Rp250 trilion .
This will cause the tax ratio to decline because the numerator is higher .
For 2007 the tax ratio is expected to reach 13.8 percent of the GDP but under the new system it will be around 12.9 percent , she said .
Regarding expenditures , she said they were estimated to reach Rp826.9 trillion in 2008 with government spending reaching Rp559 trillion rising from Rp504.8 trillion in 2007 and regional government expenditures reaching Rp267.9 trillion up from Rp258.8 trillion .
The increases would happen because the expenditures of government ministries and other government offices continued to rise every year .
In 2005 , they reached Rp121 trillion but in 2006 they rose by 76.8 percent to Rp214 trillion .
In 2007 they were set at Rp258 trillion and in 2008 they were projected to reach Rp280 trillion .
The Indonesian government has set its economic growth target for 2008 at 6.8 percent or higher than its growth forecast of 6.3 percent for 2007 , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said .
To achieve the growth target , we must boost household consumption , state consumption , exports and imports , Sri Mulyani said after a meeting on the government's work plans at the State Secretariat here on Wednesday .
But she added the government would find it quite hard to achieve the economic growth target of 6.3 percent for this year .
This will also be an extra duty for the government in the sense that it has already set the growth target at a higher level than the average projection , she said .
She said household consumption , state consumption , investment , exports and imports would serve as the main engine of economic growth in 2008 .
Household consumption in 2008 must grow by 5.9 percent compared to the growth forecast of 5.1 percent for 2007 , she said .
Normally , household consumption can reach about 61 percent of the gross domestic product GDP , she said .
Likewise , state consumption would hopefully grow by 8.9 percent next year from the growth projection of 6.2 percent this year , she said .
Investment was expected to grow by 15.5 percent next year from the growth forecast of 12.3 percent
Meanwhile , exports were expected to grow by 12.7 percent next year from the growth projection of 9.9 percent this year , she said .
She said at least three factors would impede the attainment of the 6.8 percent growth target for 2008 , namely declining risk resulting from global economic growth , frequent natural disasters at home and fluctuations in global oil and commodity prices .
The government has predicted that the deficit of the 2007 budget will rise from 1.1 to 1.5 percent , or two percent from Rp60 to Rp65 trillion , of the total gross domestic product GDP .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said after a cabinet meeting chaired by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono here on Wednesday that this year's economic growth was expected to reach 6.3 percent .
She said a number of factors had contributed to the rise in the budget deficit such as rising expenditures in the wake of the floods and carry-over subsidies .
She said the acceleration of payments of delayed tax payments would also reduce the state's income by around Rp12 trillion .
These are some of the factors that might affect projections for the 2007 budget .
We do not know the exact figures as we are still monitoring the income and expenditures , she said .
Total budget of 2007 reached Rp723.1 trillion with government expenditures amounting to Rp763.6 trillion , or a deficit of Rp40.5 trillion .
In terms of income , the tax ratio for the 2007 budget has been projected at 14.4 percent of the gross domestic product .
This will be an extra job for the government .
The government has deliberately set a target higher than general projections , she said .
She said to meet the target , consumption by households should grow by 5.1 percent , by government by 8.9 percent , investment by 12.3 percent , exports by 9.9 percent and imports by 14.2 percent .
The U.S. dollar remained weak around the upper 116 yen range Thursday morning in Tokyo after the U.S. Federal Reserve chief's congressional testimony the previous day fueled concerns over the U.S. economic outlook .
At noon , the dollar was quoted at 116.97-117.02 yen , against Wednesday's 5 p.m. quotes of 116.80-90 yen in New York and 117.36-39 yen in Tokyo .
The euro traded at $ 1.3310-3315 and 155.72-77 yen , compared with Wednesday's 5 p.m. quotes of $ 1.3308-3318 and 155.51-61 yen in New York and $ 1.3334-3337 and 156.52-56 yen in Tokyo .
The U.S. dollar plunged to the lower 116 yen level in New York on Wednesday after Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke referred to uncertainties about the U.S. economic outlook in his congressional testimony , prompting investors to sell off the dollar , dealers said .
International rating agency Fitch Ratings has already given an estimated rating of ` A-idn ' to Indonesia's third biggest motorcycle financing company PT Wahana Ottomitra Multiartha WOM Finance in view of its plan to issue Rp1 trillion worth of bonds , report said .
The debentures comprise senior debts with secured guarantee through consumer financing and can be received until they reached a maximum of 80 percent of the total of outstanding bonds , WOM Finance said in the dispatch made available here Thursday .
The bonds will be offered in four periods of time ranging from 30 to 54 months .
WOM Finance which has at least a 6.8 percent market share last year is 46.99 percent controlled by PT Bank Internasional Indonesia , 15.01 percent by International Finance Corp IFC and 5 percent by DBS Nominees .
WOM Finance's share trading was closed at Rp530 at the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ on Wednesday , a Rp10 decline from the previous day .
Publicly-listed property developer PT Summarecon Agung announced on Thursday it posted a net profit of Rp168.10 billion in 2006 , up 11.17 percent from a year earlier .
Net sales in 2006 rose to Rp965.25 billion to Rp797.93 billion , proping up operational profit to Rp241.94 billion from Rp233.08 billion , according to the company's annual financial statement .
As a result , earning per share in 2006 increased to Rp61 from Rp57 the year before .
Summarcon Agung shares were trading at Rp1,120 per share on Thursday , down Rp40 from the day before .
Indonesia's commercial consumption expenditures CCE in 2006 rose by 25 percent to US $ 467.8 billion from a year earlier , making it the fastest growing country in the Asia Pacific region , a foreign economic observer said .
Indonesia saw the fastest growth among five Asia-Pacific countries which recorded fairly significant growth last year , senior vice president for Commercial Solutions for Asia and the Pacific , Michael Cannon , said here Thursday .
The Philippines and Thailand whose CCE grew by 18 percent respectively trailed behind in second place , followed by Sri Lanka 17 percent and Vietnam 16 percent , he said .
Japan was listed as the biggest market in the Asia Pacific region last year , with total expenditures reaching US $ 5.3 trillion , he said .
The CCE growth in Asia and the Pacific was to be attributed to the economic growth of Asian giants such as China , India and South Korea , which saw two-digit growth last year , making the region the fastest growing one in the world , he said .
The total amount of expenditures in the region reached an estimated US $ 17 trillion last year , he said .
He said the CCE Index provided the global financing industry with an objective and consistent way to monitor the global business sector's expenditures .
Indonesia's second largest telecommunications company PT Indosat will offer its bonds to the public worth Rp2 trillion in to support its telecommunications network service expansion plan .
In its release made available here on Wednesday , PT Indosat said that the bonds to be offered included Indosat's Bond V / Year 2007 carrying a fixed interest rate with a highest principle value of Rp1.7 trillion. It consisted of Seri A having a maturity period of seven years and Seri B with a maturity date of ten years .
The bonds are being offered with 100 percent principle and an interest payable once in three months effective as of the date of issuance .
The other type of bonds Indosat will float on the market is Indosat's Sukuk Ijarah Islamic bonds II Year 2007 , with a highest principle of Rp300 billion and is to be offered in 100 percent of the rest of its Ijarah bonds .
PT Indosat has named PT Andalan Artha Advisindo Sekuritas and PT Danareksa Sekuritas as the underwriters of the bonds and Susuk ijarah issuance .
Publicly-listed Bank Danamon Tbk said on Wednesday it will issue bonds worth Rp1.5 trillion this month to expand lending .
The series A bonds worth Rp250 billion will carry an interest of 9.40 percent per year and series B bonds worth Rp1.25 trillion will carry an interest of 10.60 percent per year .
The bank has appointed PT Deutsche Securities Indonesia , PT DBS Vickers Securities Indonesia and PT Indo Premier Securities as bond issue underwriters with PT Bank Mega Tbk as a trustee agent .
The Bank Indonesia BI or Central Bank , in cooperation with the Finance Ministry and the Deposit Guarantee Agency LPS , plans to set up a body to deal with possible instability in the country's financial system , a spokesman said .
Early next month , we will sign a joint decree for the establishment of a Forum for Financial System Stability FSSK , Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Mulyaman D Hadad said at a seminar here on Monday .
The issue of financial stability had become a priority as Indonesia was a country that was receiving capital inflows from the current excess in global liquidity , he said .
He said the forum would be a formal crisis management institution in the country .
Hadad said although a lot of foreign capital had come into the country , the situation now was different from when foreign capital flowed into the country in 1997 .
The country's economic condition now is better than 10 years ago .
We now have better macro-economic stability and a larger amount of foreign exchange reserves .
Still , we have to remain alert towards a possible disruption in our currency , he said .
He said apart from establishing the FSSK , Bank Indonesia was continuing to issue regulations , increase research and surpervision to identify and monitor possible risks that could threaten financial stability and taking preventive measures to avoid a crisis and find solutions to a possible crisis .
Meawnhile , LPS chief executive Krisna Wijaya said on the occasion that other countries had already created a safety valve to overcome a possible financial crisis .
They had done so considering that past crises had caused their governments to bear huge fiscal cost burdens .
Quoting several economic experts , he said , Indonesia used 58 percent of its gross domestic product GDP to finance its financial crisis in 1997-1998 .
This is the highest among crisis-hit countries in the world .
The crisis in Argentina that has often been considered to have brought a big impact only took 55 percent of that country's GDP to settle , he said .
Therefoe , he said , it was important to have a better financial risk management to overcome similar crises .
One of the ways is a deposit guarantee .
According to Bank Indonesia , a total of US $ 8.5 billion worth of foreign funds flowed into the country from January to May .
The funds came through state bonds US $ 3.96 billion , SBI promissory notes US $ 3.2 billion and money market US $ 1.3 billion .
In May , the central bank recorded foreign ownership of SBI at US $ 6 billion , state bonds at US $ 9.4 billion and money market at US $ 62 billion .
The rupiah at the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market on Tuesday afternoon strengthened to 8,975 / 8,980 per US dollar from 9,028 / 9,065 the day before or an improvement by 63 points .
Foreign exchange analyst with PT Bank Niaga , Noel Chandra , said here Tuesday purchasing of rupiah increased in the afternoon causing the local unit to strengthen drastically .
However , according to Chandra , market agents also worried about the Japanese central bank's decision to increase its interest rate next August .
If the Japanese central bank BoJ really raised its interest rates , market agents would buy yen in regional markets and it would eventually lead the rupiah to continue to strengthen , he said .
The BoJ would this week hold a meeting to discuss interest rates and the market situation which had not not yet become bullish .
We expect the rupiah to keep on strengthening as the market's positive sentiment still continues , he said .
The market was now also watching the US central bank the Fed which would lower its interest rate , and worrying about the increasing inflation rate .
He said the improvment in the rupiah's rate was also supported by the improving internal market conditions among others due to the decreasing number of rallies in the hope more foreign investors would enter the domestic market as the investment climate at home was improving .
The Indonesian currency appreciated also because of the improving regional share market due to the strengthening Wall Street stock exchange despite worries that the global economy would adversely affect the share market , he said .
The National Development Planning Agency Bappenas will cancel foreign-funded projects worth US $ 6-7 billion approved since 2000 as their execution had fallen short of expectations , an official said .
The projects have not performed as expected due to slugggish fund absorption as a consequence of such problems as land disputes , Bappenas chief Paskah Suzetta said in a dialog with the rector of Padang State University UNP , Mawardi Effendi , here on Wednesday .
He said the government was determined to combine foreign and domestic funding sources to finance development projects in the future .
The combination of domestic and foreign funding sources is designed to avoid having to seek offshore loans such as those from multilateral and bilateral institutions that usually apply binding contracts , he said .
In 2007 , the government would disburse offshore loans worth US $ 1.7 billion out of US $ 4 billion agreed to by the House of Representatives DPR .
Some of the loans would originate from the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank and the Japan Bank of International Cooperation .
Publicly-listed transportation firm PT Humpus Intermoda Transportasi Tbk is planning to issue US $ 400 million woth of bonds this year to meet capital expenditure needs until 2010 .
The bonds would consist of US $ 350 million senior bonds due in eight years and US $ 50 million junior bonds due in five years , the company's president director , Agus Darjanto , said on Wednesday .
He said the company's capital expenditure needs were projected at US $ 100-115 million in each of the next three years .
This year we will buy five ships worth US $ 159 million , he said .
Some of the funds needed to buy the ships would originate from the capital expenditure and the rest from the sale of two ships estimated worth US $ 36 million , he said .
In its general shareholders' meeting on Wednesday , the company decided to allocate Rp41.9 billion of its 2006 net profit to pay dividends , and to use the remaining Rp108.76 billion as retained earnings .
Banks in Central Sulawesi province have in March 2007 provided credits worth Rp977  96 billion to micro , small and medium-sized businesses UMKM , according to a bank report on Sunday .
The amount of the credits provided in March slightly increased compared with the credits provided by banks in the previous month Februray which totalled Rp976.88 billion , Bank Indonesia's Palu office reported .
Of the total bank credits for the UMKM businesses in March , the biggest share -- Rp838.89 billion -- came from government banks while the remaining Rp139.07 billion were provided by private banks .
The business sectors with the biggest share include 0trade , restaurants and hotels reaching Rp579.41 billion , followed by agriculture Rp208.06 billion , services Rp27.49 billion , construction Rp26.43 billion , industry Rp18.10 billion , societal service Rp10.87 billion and other sectors Rp99.27 billion .
FISH has named Muchtar-Karuwin-Komar law firm as legal adviser and PT Ernest & Young as financial adviser in the merger or acquisition , FKS Multi Agro's corporate secretary Sofia Ridmarini told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Monday .
Publicly-listed animal feed raw material producer PT FKS Multi Agro FISH will effect a merger of its subsidiaries or an acquisition before the end of 2007 , a spokesperson said .
FISH shares were traded at Rp3,200 on Friday or Rp100 higher than on Thursday .
FISH obtained Rp1.89 billion from transactions on 522,500 of its shares on Friday .
A glass company , PT Asahimas Flat Glass AMFG Tbk publicly listed , has liquidated its subsidiary in Singapore , Glavermas Mirror PTe.Ltd. , Asahimas Director Sameul Rumbajan told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Monday .
According to him , the liquidation has been done under the prevailing law in Singapore .
As of June 20 , 2007 , under the law prevailing in Singapore , Glavermas Mirror Pte. Ltd. , as a corporate body has been officially liquidated , he said .
Thus , he said , as of June 20 , 2007 , Glavermas Mirror PTe.Ltd. , in Singapore , has been no longer in the structure of the company .
AMFG's share was priced at Rp3,400 on Friday's trading , when it had a transaction of 2,000 shares worth Rp6.80 million .
The Indonesian economy is likely to expand 6 percent in the first half of 2007 , or lower than the government-set target of 6.3 percent , a minister said .
The government foresaw that the economy would fall short of the target as household consumption would grow 4-4.5 percent , investment 9 percent and government spending 10-11 percent , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said after a cabinet meeting on the revised 2007 state budget at the Presidential Office here on Monday .
Some variables of macro economic assumptions in the first half of 2007 have been changed , she said .
The variables included inflation rate which had been changed to 6 percent from 6.5 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar to Rp8,970 from Rp9,300 per dollar , interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates SBI to 8 percent from 8.5 percent , and oil price to US $ 61.4 from US $ 63 per barrel , she said .
The cabinet meeting discussed the realization of the 2007 state budget in the first semester of 2007 and the revised 2007 state budget which will soon be referred to the House of Representatives for approval , she said .
Given changes in the variables , the economy in the second half of 2007 would grow by an average of 6.6 percent , inflation rate 6.5 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar Rp9,100-Rp9,200 per dollar , interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates 8 percent , and oil price US $ 58-59 per barrel .
Under the revised 2007 state budget , the economic growth assumption the government would bring to the House for approval was 6.3 percent , inflation rate 6.5 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate Rp9,100 per dollar , interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates 8 percent , and oil price US $ 60 per barrel .
Publicly-listed PT Bank International Indonesia BII is increasing the amount of its credits for micro and small businesses UMK in cooperation with smallholder credit banks BPR under a linkage program .
For this purpose , BII's Commercial and UKM Affairs Director , Dira K Mochtar signed Credit Provision Agreement Letters SP3K with directors of BPR in the presence of Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah here on Wednesday .
Dira K Mochtar said that BII had provided credits for five BPRs in Bekasi , Magelang , Yogyakarta , Solo and Makassar to be channeled to UKMs .
The amount of the credits based on the agreement signed on Wednesday was Rp46.4 billion .
The ceiling of the credits that would be provided further to UKMs through the BPR is between Rp500 million and Rp25 billion and they would mature in three to five years .
The linkage program is part of BII's strategy to reach the UKM sector and to support efforts being made to strengthen the competitive edge of BPRs based on the pillars of the Indonesian Banks' Architecture API , he said .
Through the linkage program , it was expected that BPR would gain capital strength in developing their activities in financing the UKMs , he added .
Up till May 2007 , the number of BPRs under the BII's linkage program had reached 75 with a total initial ceiling of credits worth Rp569.8 billion and outstanding loans totaling Rp342.9 billion .
Indonesia's excise receipts in the first half of 2007 reached Rp20.1 trillion , accounting for 49 percent of the government-set target of Rp42 trillion , a Finance Ministry official said .
Nearly 95 percent of the excise receipts originated from cigarette makers , Director General of Customs and Excise Anwar Suprijadi said on the sidelines of a meeting with the House of Representatives' working committee for excise bill at the parliament building .
The excise receipts rose 14.2 percent compared to the same period last year when the figure was Rp17.2 trillion , he said .
The increase was the result of excise rate hike and improved law enforcement , he said .
Cigarette production was expected to increase 2.75 percent to 224 billion pieces this year from 218 billion pieces a year earlier , he said .
Import duty receipts in the first semester of 2007 reached Rp7.3 trillion , representing 51 percent of the target of Rp14.4 trillion for that year , he said .
He said the import duty receipts in the January-June 2007 period jumped 28.01 percent compared to the same period last year when the figure stood at Rp5.7 trillion .
This means that excise and import duty receipts in the six months to June rose Rp4.1 trillion. God willing , the target for 2007 will be achieved , he said .
Japanese investors hoped that the implementation of regional autonomy in North Sulawesi would provide conducive climate for investment in the province , North Sulawesi Governor Sinyo Harry Sarundajang said here on Thursday .
We have to acknowledge some still believe that economic reforms have yet to be fully implemented in Indonesia but I have ascertained that North Sulawesi is serious in cutting down various bureaucratic procedures and rullings which hamper investment , the governor said .
He said that concerns about regional autonomy and bureaucratic barriers were raised during a tripartite meeting between him , Japan International Cooperation Agency JICA and Japan-Indonesia Society Association on Wednesday .
In the meeting with several Indonesian officials , Japanese investors said that Indonesia did not have sense of speed in implementing its economic reform policies .
Rullings made by the central government met with different implementation in provinces following the introduction of regional autonomy .
In the meeting we also discuss which projects that can get Japanese assistance through the JICA .
JICA has expressed readiniess to facilitate the flow of investment to North Sulawesi , the governor said .
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said the banking world's Consultative Paper of the New Basel Capital Accord or better known as Basel II should be applied with the purpose of creating equitable national prosperity .
If the application of the system impedes disbursement of credits for the purchase of sugarcane and paddy seeds or for micro and small businesses , we had better abandon it , Kalla said before opening a national seminar on the application of Basel II and its impact on the consolidation of the national banking industry here .
Application of Basel II was not a goal but merely a means to help achieve the country's goal of improving the people's welfare and prosperity in a fair manner , he said .
The vice president said domestic banks must be able to compete with foreign ones so as not to allow the latter to gain control over the domestic banking industry .
Therefore , he added , Basel II must be applied with a high degree of nationalist ardor and in conjunction with adequate improvements in the banking industry's management system so that the industry can optimally peform its function in pursuit of conducive economic growth .
He said application of Basel II must include provision of credits for farmers , fishermen and micro and small entrepreneurs who had been serving as the pillars of the economy since the monetary crisis engulfed the country in 1997 .
Today , the national economy still relies on the grass-roots .
That's why the global banking system must accommodate our national needs such as the provision of credits for micro and small businesses , he said .
The size of a bank cannot be measured by the value of its assets but by its performance in extending credits to the public to create prosperity , he said .
Basel II is the second of the Basel Accords which are recommendations on banking laws and regulations issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .
The final version aims to ensure that capital allocation is more risk sensitive ; separating operational risk from credit risk , and quantifying both ; attempting to align economic and regulatory capital more closely to reduce the scope for regulatory arbitrage .
Bank Indonesia the central bank is planning to apply the Basel II to all commercial banks in stages starting in 2008 .
In implementing Basel II , the central bank will pursue two different approaches , namely standardized approach and basic indicator approach .
Bank Indonesia , the central bank , on Thursday cut its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent , citing continuing improvements in the county's macro-economic conditions .
The decision to cut the rate was made following a comprehensive assessment of economic developments and prospects that are showing signs of improvement , Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said after a meeting of the central bank's board of governors here .
He said the cut in the key rate , locally known as BI Rate , was also based on the likehood of the country hitting its full-year inflation targets of 6 , plus and minus 1 percent for 2007 , and of 5 , plus and minus 1 percent , for 2008 .
The results of a study conducted by the central bank suggested that inflationary pressure had shown signs of abating in recent months , he said .
On a yearly basis , the consumer price index inflation and the core inflation rates in the second quarter of 2007 stood at 5.77 percent and 5.4 percent respectively , he said .
Inflation had slowed as the prices of volatile foods reported deflation despite an increase in the prices of several commodities .
Burhanuddin said the core inflation rate still tended to decline due to easing external pressure and adequate supplies to meet demand .
He expressed hope that the cut in the key rate , the 13th since last May , would give the business world more access to low-interest bank loans .
Indonesia's balance of payments in the second quarter of 2007 recorded a surplus of US $ 3.7 billion , Bank Indonesia said .
Preliminary data show that the balance of payments in the second quarter of 2007 recorded a surplus of US $ 3.7 billion , surpassing the initial projection of US $ 1.1 billion , Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah told a press conference here Thursday .
The higher-than-expected balance of payments had raised the country's foreign exchange reserves to US $ 51 billion in the month ending on June 30 , 2007 , he said .
The foreign exchange reserves were enough to finance imports and foreign debt repayments for 5.2 months , he said .
He said the rupiah which appreciated by an average of 1.5 percent to Rp8,968 per dollar in the second quarter of 2007 from Rp9,102 per dollar a quarter earlier had raised the balance of payment .
The rupiah's appreciation was also fueled by positive developments in fundamental factors as reflected by improved balance of payments , attractive yields on the rupiah , and manageable risk factors , he said .
Taxation Director General Darmin Nasution said the country's tax receipts in the first semester of 2007 increased 20.75 percent to Rp191 trillion compared with those in a corresponding period in 2006 .
The 20.75 percent increase exceeds the average 18.8 percent rise in tax receipts over the past five years , Darmin said here on Thursday .
He said realization of tax revenue from the oil and gas sector in the first semester of this year stood atRp171 trillion or an increase by Rp20.2 trillion if compared with the same period in 2006 when the figure was Rp141.5 trillion .
Darmin said tax receipts in the second quarter of this year came slower than in the first quarter due to the payment of restitution arrears worth Rp15 trillion , consisting of Rp7 trillion in last year's arears and Rp8 trilion in current year arrears .
The slow-tax receipts also happened because of a fall in deposit interest receipts following the decline in the deposit interest rate which was marked by improvements in the country's macro-economic indicators .
Besides , law inflation had also caused a decline in value-added tax receipts .
The director general also said the realization of tax revenues in 2007 was expected to drop by Rp19 trillion to Rp20 trillion from the target set in the 2007 state budget .
PT Perusahaan Pengelola Aset PPA , state-owned asset management company , will sell the government's stakes in insurance firm PT Asuransi Tugu Pratama Indonesia and reinsurance firm PT Tugu Reasuransi Indonesia late September .
At the end of the third quarter we will conduct public offering , PT PPA President Director M Syarial said following a working meeting with the House of Representatives DPR on Monday night .
Syarial said PT PPA would lobby state oil and gas firm Pertamina to also sell its stake in PT Asuransi Tugu Pratama Indonesia .
If the government's and Pertamina's stakes are combined , they will become majority shares so they can fetch higher prices , he said .
The government now holds a 17.50 percent stake in PT Tugu Pratama Indonesia and a 25.04 percent stake in PT Tugu Reasuransi Indonesia .
In total , the government's and Pertamina's stakes in PT Tugu Pratama reach more than 70 percent of the company's shares , he said .
He said the recent general meeting of Pertamina's shareholders had given the green light to the company to release its non-core assets in PT Tugu Pratama .
The current economic growth is still not enough to significantly reduce the high unemployment rate and to lift the people out of poverty , a central bank official said .
At present we are still concerned about the high level of open unemployment which stands at 10.9 million or 10.3 percent , well above the pre-crisis level of 4.7 percent in 1997 , Senior Deputy Bank Indonesia Governor Miranda Goeltom said in a seminar here on Wednesday .
The higher unemployment rate and limited job opportunities reflected a slow pace of the real sector's growth , she said .
This happens because the business world lacks new capacity to develop businesses to absorb rising labor force , she said .
The business world still had difficulties obtaining additional capital , either investment capital or working capital , from the banking sector , she said .
Ironically , the banking industry had a surplus of liquidity funds , she added .
In addition , she added , the key interest rate , locally known as BI Rate , had recorded a significant drop which was actually expected to encourage banks to lower their lending rates to spur the real sector's growth .
Miranda said the lower bank lending extended to the real sector showed the high degree of uncertainty about doing business in the country .
The lower bank lending could be seen from the banks' loan-to-deposit ratio LDR which had tended to fall since 1999 , she said .
The LDR fell to 64.7 percent at the end of 2006 from the pre-crisis level of 100 percent .
The LDR slightly increased to 65.8 percent at the end of May 2007 .
Undisbursed loans in the second quarter of 2007 rose Rp6.9 trillion , bringing their amount to Rp172 trillion or 20 percent of the total banking loans at the end of the quarter , she said .
The significant increase in undisbursed loans happened to working capital credits reaching Rp4.3 trillion .
This implies that a great chunk of undisbursed loans in the second quarter of 2007 was still dominated by working capital credits , reaching 70.7 percent , she said .
If undisbursed loans did not occur , the economy would expand faster than expected and create more jobs , she said .
After all , she said , the central bank saw the economic indicators until July 2007 remained on the right track , raising the hope that the economic growth would hover above 6 percent this year .
It is a global phenomena and it happens in almost every emerging market , he said .
He said it would continue to happen so long as return on earning was still there .
Asked if Indonesia was ready in case of a reverse he said it was and there was nothing to worry about .
Our foreign exchange reserves are more than enough so that there is nothing to worry about , he said .
State electricity company PLN will issue another bonds worth Rp3 trillion to strengthen its working capital .
PLN needed huge funds to meet national power need which grew 8.5 percent per year , PLN President Director Eddie Widiono said on Monday .
PLN plans to sell the bonds on July 3-5 and they will be traded on the Surabaya Stock Exhange starting July 11 .
Eddie said PLN currently supplied 55.3 percent of the country's household power need .
PLN has set itself a target of meeting 76 percent of the household power need by 2015 .
The company suffered a loss of Rp2.8 billion in 2006 compared to Rp4.921 billion a year earlier .
Publicly-listed shipping company PT Arpeni Pratama Ocean Line APOL through its subsidiary has acquired shares of five Panama firm's companies namely YED 1 SA , YED 2 SA , YED 3 SA , YED 4 SA , and YED 5 SA , a spokesperson has said .
Each transaction which was carried out on May 22 , 2007 , was valued at US $ 50 million , APOL director and corporate secretary Ronald Nangoi told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Tuesday .
The transactions were aimed at boosting APOL shipping activity , he said adding that the investment program was financed by internal sector as well as national and foreign agencies .
After the transaction , the five subsidiaries ordered five new tankers with each capacity of 13,000 dwt .
APOL also reported it would buy two more tankers at a value of $ 100 million each which would arrive in Indonesia in 2008 and be managed by the APOL ? s subsidiary .
The subsidiary was a joint venture which was set up with Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. Ltd of South Korea .
The plan to buy the two tankers was decided in a shareholder ? s extraordinary meeting which was held on July 28 last year .
The Asian Development Bank ADB once applied to the Finance Ministry for a permit to issue local currency bonds in Indonesia , an official said .
They ADB once applied for a permit to issue local currency bonds but until now they have yet to issue the bonds , the ministry's director general of debt management , Rahmat Waluyanto , said on Friday .
Waluyanto said the ministry had no problem with the bank's application .
On the contrary , the issuance of such bonds would benefit Indonesia .
We will much benefit from it , meaning that if the ADB which has high rating pushes through with the bond issuance investors will consider Indonesia a good place of investment , he said .
Asked if the finance minister had approved the bank's application , he reiterated that in principle , the minister had no problem with it .
The issuance of ADB bonds would have no impact on the bonds issued by the Indonesian government so far , he said .
The amount of ADB bonds is small so it will have no impact , he said .
Early this month , the Manila-based bank issued dollar-denominated global bonds worth US $ 1 billion with a maturity of 10 years .
The bonds which carry a coupon of 5.25 percent payable every semester will mature on June 12 , 2017 .
Publicly-listed Bank Pan Indonesia Panin Tbk is offering fixed-rate bonds worth Rp1.65 trillion , up from the originally planned Rp1.5 trillion .
The bonds are divided into A series bond worth Rp50 billion with a maturity of three years , B series bond worth Rp1.40 trillion with a maturity of five years and C series bond worth Rp200 billion with a maturity of seven years , the bank said on Monday .
The bank last year posted a net profit of Rp730 billion , up 29 percent from a year earlier .
PT Adhi Karya will increase its stake in the Jakarta Monorail JM project from 7.65 percent to 21.83 percent gradually , a company executive said .
JM will issue new shares .
Adhi Karya will purchase in stages 250,000 shares each having a nominal value of US $ 100 , Kurnardi Gularso , Adhi Karya's corporate secretary , told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Thursday .
PT Adhi Karya would thus raise the value of its investment in JM by US $ 25 million to buy 25,000 shares , he said .
PT Adhi Karya would pay $ 15 million to purchase JM shares in the first stage after the Jakarta Monorail company obtains a guarantee from a financial institution .
The remaining $ 10 million would be paid in the second phase , Kurnardi said .
The stake of ITC which currently controls 91.02 percent of JM shares would eventually drop to 12.82 percent as ITC was not taking part in the purchase of JM's additional shares .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI has approved the Bank of India's plan to acquire privately-run Bank Swadesi's shares in a letter dated June 13 , 2007 , an official said .
The deed of the acquisition was signed on June 22 , 2007 , Bank Swadesi's corporate secretary Primasura Pandu said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Thursday .
The two sides signed a conditional shares sale and purchase agreement CSPA on December 11 last year .
Bank Swadesi posted a net profit of Rp8.272 billion last year .
Bank of India has formally acquired a 76-percent stake in Indonesia's Bank Swadesi following the signing of a relevant document here on Friday .
Bank Swadesi welcomes Bank of India as its strategic partner .
This is Bank Swadesi's progressive step to meet requirements for the Indonesia banking architecture program , Bank Swadesi Director Suroso said .
Bank of India's action in increasing its internatinal activities will be continued with a tender offer , Bank Swadesi corporate secretary Primasura Pandu said on Thursday .
On December 11 last year , Bank Swadesi and Bank of India signed a conditional sale and purchase agreement .
Until the end of 2006 , Bank Swadesi extended up to Rp457.774 billion worth of credits .
Credits to be extended this year are expecred to total Rp525.743 billion .
The bank's net profit until the end of 2006 was recorded at Rp8.272 billion and is expected to reach Rp10.0 billion by year end .
The managing director of Bank Negara Indonesia BNI , Bien Subiantoro , said the amount of credits his bank had channeled to small - and medium-scale entrepreneurs SMEs reached over Rp30.84 trillion in June 2007 or an increase by 5.2 percent compared to April when the figure was Rp29.3 trillion .
The amount of credits extended to small-scale businesses per June was Rp14.52 trillion or an increase by Rp902 billion compared to its position in April at Rp13.6 trillon , he said in Tangerang , Banten province , over the week-end .
The credits issued for medium-scale businessmen totaled Rp16.32 trillion per June 2007 or an increase by Rp620 billion compared to April when they were recorded at only Rp15.7 trillion .
Our target for the channeling of credits to medium-scale businesses until the end of this year is Rp 17.4 trillion and for small-scale enterprises Rp16.5 trillion , he said .
This meant that the credits already channeled by the bank to SMEs accounted for 89.45 percent of the total credits for SMEs , he said .
In the meantime , SMEs' credit and Syariah had reached 44 percent of the total credits already channeled , while consumers' credit was about Rp9 trillion up to Rp10 trillion of the total outstanding credit which was standing at Rp170 trillion .
According to him , BNI will have a credit-channeling composition of about 60 percent for non corporate credit SMEs , Syariah and Consumers and 40 percent for corporate credit .
According to BNI managing director Sigit Pramono , at present BNI was engeneering a 60 percent market credit of the bank for non corporate and 40 percent for corporate in expanding the role of credit for SMEs and Syariah .
However , we cannot leave behind the corporate credit , he said .
For syariah funding , Sigit said that his side had a composition of about 80 percent for micro , small and medium businessmen and 20 percent for corporate .
The funding for April , 2007 , according to him , reached Rp1.3 trillion and the target till the end of this year was set at Rp1.7 trillion .
Rupiah on the Jakarta Inter-bank Spot Market on Monday morning strengthened approaching a level of Rp9,000 per US dollar to Rp9,013 / 9,020 against the US greenback compared to Rp9,015 / 9,051 to the US currency at last week's closing session .
Money market observer Edwin Sinaga said the market agents still speculated about buying rupiah rather than US dollar although the latter strengthened against Japanese yen on the regional market .
We are optimistic that rupiah will rebound to reach a level of Rp9,000 against the US dollar if the positive sentiment still continues , he said .
He said the Indonesian unit could actually increase higher because foreign agents predicted that the Janpanese central bank BOJ would raise its interest rate .
BOJ was expected to increase its interest rate from 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent or 25 basis points , he noted .
He said the increase in the Japanese interest rate would give a positive sentiment to the Indonesian currency .
Meanwhile , yen now drops to the US dollar as market agents are anticipating the planned interest rate , he said .
He said rupiah was expected to reach a level of Rp9,000 to the US dollar in the afternoon due the safe situation at home prompting local agents to buy the Indonesian unit .
He said US dollar has strengthened to 123.28 against yen , and euro against the US dollar to 1.3535 from 1.3540 .
Publicly-listed integrated energy company PT Medco Energi Internasional has acquired Anadarko Tunisia Anagui Company's 40-percent participation right in the Anaguid Block in Tunisia worth US $ 10 million , a company executive said .
The acquisition was conducted by the group's subsidiary , Medco Tunisia Anaguid Ltd. The agreement was made retroactive to June 12 , 2007 , Medco International Energi's corporate business development director Rashid I Mangunkusumo told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Monday .
He said Anadarko which previously had a 55-percent stake in the Anaguid Block had sold the remaining 15 percent of its participation right to Pioneer Natural Resources which already had a 45-percent stake in the Anaguid Block .
However , implementation of the agreement on the transaction depends on the fulfilment of a precedent condition , namely approval from the Tunisian government to transfer Anaguid's participation right to Medco Tunisia and Pioneer , Rashid said .
Through the acquisitions , Medco Tunisia would hold a 40-percent and Pioneer a 60-percent stake in the Anaguid Block .
Pioneer Natural Resources was thus named operator of the block .
A surge in the price of red chili was the main cause of June's inflation of 0.23 percent , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
The price of red chili climbed to Rp18,000 in June from Rp14,000 a kg a month earlier , adding 0.10 percent to the month's inflation rate , BPS Deputy Chief for Economic Statistics Pietojo said here Monday .
June's inflation brought the calender year inflation rate to 2.08 percent and the year-on-year inflation rate to 5.77 percent , he said .
The prices of other food stuffs such as cooking oil and onion also rose , contributing 0.08 percent and 0.02 percent respectively to the inflation rate , he said .
The price of rice in June fell 0.10 percent from a month earlier but it was not enough to lower the consumer price index , he said .
Last month's core inflation stood at 0.10 percent , bringing the calender year core inflation rate to 2.11 percent and the year-on-year core inflation rate to 5.40 percent , he said .
All ASEAN member states had agreed to accelerate ASEAN's economic integration in accordance with the ASEAN leaders' commitment set forth in the blueprint for ASEAN Economic Community AEC , the Indonesian Finance Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday .
The AEC blueprint contains economic and financial aspects as well as measures that must be taken to bring about ASEAN's economic integration by 2015 .
Aware of the significance of the ASEAN leaders' commitment , participants on the second day of the meeting focused on discussing the draft and substance of AEC , particularly those related to the financial service sector , the statement said .
The meeting was also attended by representatives of Bank Indonesia central bank , chairman of the working committee on capital account liberalization .
The meeting deemed it necessary to consider the different levels of member states' preparedness to face economic integration .
Therefore , the meeting agreed to give a kind of flexibility to any of the member states that still needed time to implement the AEC blueprint .
In a narrower scope of discussion , the meeting felt the need to draw up a clear timeline for the liberalization of financial service subsectors in pursuit of ASEAN's economic integration .
To make the discussion more intensive , the member states agreed to continue the discussion on the AEC blueprint at the 16th WC-FSL / AFAS meeting to be held in Bangkok on June 19-20 next year .
The AEC blueprint is expected to be agreed upon by ASEAN economic ministers at the ASEAN Economic Ministers Meeting AEM in August 2007 in the Philippines and to be endorsed by the ASEAN heads of state / government at the ASEAN Summit on November 13-21 in Singapore .
Publicly-listed construction firm PT Wijaya Karya WIKA in cooperation with a Japanese consortium , COJAAL Kajima , Taisei , Nisimatsu , Hazena and Teken has won a project to build 57 bridges worth US $ 50.4 million in Algeria .
We signed a contract with COJAAL on June 22 , 2007 .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI said two commercial banks have not met its Rp80 billion minimum capital requirement a week ahead of the Dec 31 , 2007 deadline .
They are making an effort to beef up their capital to Rp80 billion .
We have asked them to give us additional information , Halim Alamsyah , chief of the central bank's research and banking regulation directorate , said on Wednesday .
However , he declined to name the two banks .
If they are unable to meet the Rp80 billion minimum capital requirement on Dec 31 , Bank Indonesia will write to them on Jan 2 declaring them banks with limited activities BKT , he said .
If in the next two years they were still unable to meet the requirement as stated in the Indonesian Banking Architecture API , they would have their status downgraded to smallholder credit banks BPR , he said .
This will be known only at the end of 2010 , he said .
Publicly-listed coal mining firm PT Bumi Resources BUMI is planning to acquire 99.84 percent of the shares of PT Mitratama Perkasa which owns Bengalon port in East Kalimantan , a spokesperson said .
The objective of the proposed acquisition is to support PT Bumi Resources' business plan , BUMI's corporate secretary Dileep Srivastava told the Surabaya Stock Exchange SSX here Tuesday .
Dileep , however , did not disclose the transaction's value but said it was not a material one and did not have a vested interest .
The world's crude palm oil CPO output in 2007 is expected to grow 4 percent to 38.4 million tons from 36.8 million tons a year earlier , with the greatest chunk of it to be derived from Malaysia and Indonesia , an executive said .
Indonesia , the world's second largest CPO producer after Malaysia , is expected to foresee a 6 percent rise in its CPO production to 16.8 million tons from 15.9 million tons the year before .
Indonesia's target of CPO production for 2007 is higher than that of Malaysia which is set at 16.3 million tons , up by 2 percent from a year earlier .
Malaysia produced 15.9 million tons of CPO last year .
CPO consumption in Indonesia and Malaysia this year is expected to increase by 11 percent or 4.2 million tons and 8 percent or 2.4 million tons respectively .
An Indonesian delegation arrived at Narita Airport , here on Wednesday for participating in a final-stage of negotiations on the Economic Partnership Agreement EPA with its Japanese counterpart .
The 30-member delegation was led by senior diplomat Soemadi DM Brotodiningrat and Halida Mijani , the Indonesian trade ministry's special staff for international cooperation .
We are determined to complete the negotiations on the pending clauses so that the agreement could be signed by the two Heads of State , Brotodiningrat , former Indonesian ambassador to Japan , told ANTARA .
The pending clauses included those concerning technical cooperation .
Meanwhile , some clauses on investment , agriculture , trade and manpower supplies , have been dealt with and agreed upon .
The final stage of the negotiations was expected to last for days to settle remaining problems before the final draft agreement would be signed by Sumadi and Japan deputy foreign minister Mitoji Yabunaka .
Sumadi Brotodinngrat said that Japan , however , would need around two months to process the final-draft agreement in accordance with its internal procedures .
The final draft of the agreement would later be formulated into an official agreement for signing by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in Jakarta on August .
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will be accompanied by a number of Japanese businessmen and investors during his visit to Indonesia .
Under the agreement Indonesia would be expected to be able to export its farm as well as manuffactured products to Japan as Japan would cut import tarrifs on the products by 90 percent or scrap them within 15 years .
In exchange , Indonesia would also cut or scrap import tarrifs on Japanese products in stages within 15 years to come .
Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Pangestu said early this month the issue that remained pending was about increasing cooperation capacity .
The minister said the EPA would give much benefit to the country , adding it would also put the country on an equal footing with other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN that had already signed similar agreements with Japan .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said Thursday the government remains upbeat about the economic growth forecast of 6.8 percent for 2008 while realizing it has to work hard to achieve the target .
The macro economy showed signs of improvement at the start of this year with the economic growth rising to 6.3 percent in the second quarter from 6 percent in the previous quarter , she said in the government's reply to the House factions' general views on the draft 2008 state budget and the financial notes .
Overall , the economy expanded 6.1 percent in the first half of 2007 , she told a plenary session in the parliament building .
The growth was driven by the people's high purchasing power , relatively strong export growth and rising investment , she said .
In addition , there had been economic stability , evident from easing inflation which clocked in at 2.81 percent in the first seven months of 2007 against 3.33 percent a year earlier , she said .
Likewise , the rupiah's exchange rate which followed the floating system moved in a balanced range of fluctuations -- thing which was favorable to healthy economic activities , she said .
Although the rupiah's volatility has gone up it can be kept in a narrow range of fluctuations .
Interest on three-month Bank Indonesia certificates tends to decline to up to 7.83 percent in August 2007 , she said .
She said the 2008 economic growth forecast of 6.8 percent would mainly be driven by much-anticipated strong consumption and export growth .
The consumption's role in spurring the economic growth should not necessarily be interpreted in a negative way .
Instead , the strong consumption indicated the revival of the people's purchasing power which would in the end boost the real sector's growth , she said .
PT Bank Danamon Indonesia Tbk. Bank Danamon Wednesday inaugurated its office channeling OC network in South Sulawesi which will enable Bank Danamon customers in the province to access syariah products and services through the network of the bank's conventional branch office .
Danamon opened its Office Channeling network in South Sulawesi after having previously established seven such networks in Jakarta and five in Surabaya last May .
We realize that one of the main challenges of the banking industry is to bring syariah banking products and services closer to customers .
Bank Danamon Syariah addresses this by making syariah banking easily accessible , among others , by using a common technology platform which enables our conventional branch network to provide a much broader range of services to our customers , including Syariah banking products , said Hendarin Sukarmadji , director of Bank Danamon Syariah .
The OC network in South Sulawesi will enable customers to open syariah savings and deposit accounts through Bank Danamon offices in Ruko Mirah-Panakukang , Maros and Sungguminasa .
Bank Danamon's integrated information technology system allows syariah customers to conduct their banking activities throughout Bank Danamon's conventional distribution network in every province in Indonesia .
Bank Danamon Syariah customers can also enjoy the convenience of using Bank Danamon's ATM network which is also accessible through the ALTO , ATM Bersama , ATM DBS Bank and Cirrus systems all over the world .
In addition , Bank Danamon Syariah customers can also enjoy the convenience of shopping at stores carrying the MasterCard Electronic logo across the globe , as well phone banking services through Danamon Access Center and HP Banking Danamon .
Bank Danamon Syariah was initiated in 2002 with the first Syariah Branch Office in Ciracas , East Jakarta .
Bank Danamon Syariah is now supported by syariah branch offices in 7 seven major cities , namely , Jakarta , Bukit Tinggi , Banda Aceh , Surabaya , Martapura , Solo and Makassar , as well as 3 three syariah sub-branch offices and 7 seven office channeling branch offices in the Jakarta area , in addition to 5 five office channeling branch offices in East Java .
Office channeling branches in the Makassar , South Sulawesi region will be activated in two phases ; the first includes the Panakukang , Maros and Sungguminasa branches , while the second phase will include 6 six office channeling branches , among others , the A.Yani branch - the Main Branch for the city of Makassar .
The Economic Partnership Agreement EPA Indonesia and Japan are expected to conclude soon will provide opportunities for Indonesian agricultural and manufactured products and skilled manpower to enter Japan , an Indonesian official said .
The EPA will bring a lot of benefits to Indonesia , particularly in marketing agricultural and manufactured products in Japan , Halida Mujani , a senior advicer on international cooperation to indonesia's trade minister , said here on Wednesday .
However , the Indonesian products would have to compete with products from other countries already being marketed in Japan , she said .
The EPA will enable our products to enter markets of international standard , she said .
Within the framework of the economic agreement , Indonesia would get technical assistance from Japan for capacity building so that Indonesian products would meet international standards applied in Japan .
When they meet Japan's health standards , Indonesian fruits such as banana and mango , and skilled manpower including nurses , could be accepted in Japan , the official said .
The EPA would cover a total of 11 sectors , such as goods and services trading , investment , energy , tariffs and customs procedures , property rights , investment protection and climate improvement , business competition and technical cooperation .
An Indonesian delegation arrived at Narita Airport , Tokyo , Wednesday to participate in the final-stage of negotiations on the EPA with Japanese counterparts .
The EPA document was expected to be signed by the two countries' heads of government in Jakarta next August .
The 30-member delegation was led by senior diplomat Soemadi DM Brotodiningrat and Halida Mujani .
We are determined to complete the negotiations on pending clauses so that the agreement can be signed by the leaders of the two governments , Brotodiningrat , former Indonesian ambassador to Japan , told ANTARA .
The pending clauses included those concerning technical cooperation .
Meanwhile , some clauses on investment , agriculture , trade and manpower supplies , have been dealt with and agreed upon .
The final stage of the negotiations was expected to last for days to settle remaining problems before the final draft agreement was signed by Sumadi and Japan's deputy foreign minister , Mitoji Yabunaka .
Under the agreement Indonesia would be expected to be able to export its farm as well as manufactured products to Japan as Japan would cut import tarrifs on the products by 90 percent or scrap them within 15 years .
In exchange , Indonesia would also cut or scrap import tarrifs on Japanese products in stages within the next 15 years .
Publicly-listed oil and gas firm PT Medco Energi Internasional MEDC is planning to divest its ownership in oil and gas drilling service firm PT Apexindo Pratama Duta APEX as Medco will focus its business on upstream oil and gas sector , a director has said .
The divestment will be carried out through a public offering of Apexindo shares to almost 50 international strategic investors , Medco Energi director Hilmi Panigoro told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Tuesday .
Therefore , MEDC had appointed Credit Suisse as a financial adviser in the divestment .
The divestment , Hilmi said , would reduce Medco's permanent asset but bring in cash to the company .
The divestment may not only give a positive impact on debt ratio to corporate equity and but also strengthen Medco Energi's balance , he said .
As of 31 August 2007 , Medco Energi owned 51.39 percent and Asian Opportunities Fund I Segregated P controlled 15.86 percent of Apexindo's asset .
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia CBA said on Tuesday it has bought 80 percent of Astra CMG Life's shares from PT Sedaya Multi Investma SMI , a subsidiary of publicly-listed automotive company PT Astra International .
CBA will team up with local company PT Gala Arta Jaya which holds 20 percent of Astra CMG Life's shares , CBA said in a press statement .
Both CBA and Astra see that joint venture between Astra and CBA has reached a level of maturity .
For the sake of this business' future success , we proposed that one of the parties become a majority shareholder .
After indepth discussions and considerations we decided to appoint CBA as the majority shareholder of Astra CMG Life , Astra Financial Service's group director Gunawan Geniusahardja said .
The director general of taxation , Darmin Nasution , said here on Friday he would summon big crude palm oil producers for questioning on suspicion that many of them did not pay their tax properly causing a potential huge loss to the state .
There are around 600 CPO businessmen in the country but only 17 groups of CPO businessmen would be summoned to Jakarta with each group consisting of 22 to 23 businessmen .
He said his office had discovered that 90 percent of CPO businessmen had reported their income tax below its benchmark .
By paying below the benchmark it does not automatically mean that they have lied because it is possible that their plantations had been damaged or they have to repay their US dollar loans at a higher rate .
It was formed to replace the IGGI .
It is important for us to be more independent and to develop our independence in the planning and implementation of development , the president said .
He said with the dissolution of the CGI , Indonesia had to cautiously and properly draw up its development budgets in order not to reduce the quality of its planning and development .
The capital market also showed an upward trend , it said .
The board noted that the global and domestic financial markets came under pressure in the third quarter of 2007 as a result of a subprime mortgage turmoil in the US .
Consequently , the Jakarta composite index early in August fell to a record low of 1,900 from 2,300 previously .
The conditions recovered in mid-August thanks to joint efforts made by global financial markets , it said .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said here Wednesday Indonesia would cease to seek financial assistance through the Consultative Group on Indonesia CGI this year as it no longer needed the aid .
I think it is necessary to terminate the CGI forum this year .
I hereby state we no longer need the CGI , the president told newsmen on the premises of the presidential palace .
He said Indonesia had taken the decision because it was now able to overcome its foreign debt problems without the involvement of CGI .
Former Singapore prime minister Lee Kuan Yew met with Vice President Jusuf Kalla to discuss Indonesia's economic prospects , global and regional economic developments here on Wednesday .
We discussed regional and internatinal economic issues and the conditions of Indonesia's economy several years ahead , Lee said after a meeting with the vice prsident .
In his meeting with the vice president , Lee expressed optimism that Indonesia would be able to achieve its economic growth target .
I think they assumptions on Indonesia's economic growth are quite realistic , and I believe that Indonesia's economy will improve in the coming two years , he said .
According to Singapore's senior minister , Indonesia's economic growth could be expedited by developing the enormous potentials it had .
He said he understood Indonesia very well , its economy , position and the various problems it was facing .
And Singapre was always trying to offer practical solutions to the problems .
In the meantime , Vice President Jusuf Kalla said Lee had been regularly visiting Indonesia over the past 47 years .
We very much appreciate his visits to Indonesia in his capacity as a leader of a friendly country and as a wise man , Kalla said .
He said he had only discussed economic matters with Lee during the meeting .
Kalla said Indonesia's economy could improve only if it established cooperation with many other countries .
Privately-run Bank Bumiputra said on Wednesday its net profit in the first semester of 2007 climbed 316 percent to Rp17.91 billion from the same period last year .
The surge in net profit was driven by a 70.72 percent rise in net interest income to Rp184.282 billion on June 30 , 2007 from Rp107.940 billion on June 30 , 2006 , the bank's president director , MC Palaniaptan said in a press conference here Wednesday .
Operational income rose 69.52 percent to Rp21.19 billion on June 30 , 2007 from Rp12.50 billion on June 30 , 2006 , he said .
This was particularly caused by an increase in fee-based income to Rp13.77 billion from Rp9.53 billion , he said .
PT Indocement's net profit was recorded at Rp360.1 billion in the first semester this year or up five percent from the same period last year .
The president director of the cement producer , Danile Lavalle , said in a statement received here on Wednesday the company's net income in the period rose three percent to Rp3.157 trillion from Rp3.036 trillion last year .
The hike contributed to the rise in sales and price in the first several months , he said .
He said the company's total sales in the period reached 6.519 million tons rising by six percent from 6,120 million tons recorded last year .
Domestic sales rose 8.6 percent to 4.8 million tons in the first semester this year from 4.4 million tons last year .
The company's business profit in the first semester this year however was down to Rp580 billion from Rp629 billion in the same period last year .
The decline happened because the company expanded to the market outside Java .
We sell to outside Java because consumption there rose 14.2 percent and this has increased transportation and sale cost significantly , he said .
Business costs rose eight percent to Rp522 billion in the first semester this year from Rp482 billion recorded in the same period last year .
Although business profit dropped , the interest burden was down 36 percent to Rp104 billion from Rp163 last year .
He said he was optimistic sales would grow five percent his year .
PT Indocement had started to expand into andesit mining this year .
Since July 25 he had bought 51 percent of shares in PT Gunung Tua Mandiri , an andesit mining company in Rumpin , West Java .
He said PT Gunung Tua Mandiri's production capacity was 1.5 million tons a year and had a reserve of 30 million tons .
The company expects to start commercial production in September 2007 , he said .
Strong economic fundamentals would insulate Malaysia from the negative effects of rising oil prices in the world market , the central bank governor said Monday .
While inflation would likely expand slightly , the overall effect would be minimal , Bank Negara governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz was quoted by the official Bernama news agency as saying .
Our economy has been able to absorb the increase in oil price and we expect that with stronger fundamentals now , we are well positioned to aborb these higher oil prices , she said on the sidelines of an anti-poverty summit .
Malaysia has been able to maintain a low level of inflation despite oil prices rising to new heights , she stressed .
World oil prices hit a record high last week when New York crude prices reached 78.77 dollars per barrel on news of sliding American crude reserves .
The House of Representatives DPR and the government agreed Monday that a deficit in the revised 2007 state budget will reach 1.54 percent of the gross domestic product GDP or equivalent to Rp58.285 trillion .
Net state bonds were revised downward by Rp3.734 trillion to Rp58.546 trillion , he said .
During the meeting the parliament and the government also agreed on a number of basic assumptions used in the revised 2007 state budget , including economic growth of 6.3 percent , inflation rate of 6 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate of Rp9,050 per dollar , and crude oil price of US $ 60 a barrel .
The GDP was estimated at Rp3,761.412 trillion , or lower than the government-proposed Rp3,804.154 trillion .
The lower-than-estimated GDP was due to a change in the assumption of the rupiah's exchange rate to Rp9,050 from Rp9,100 previously , he said .
The economy was expected to perform better throughout this year thanks to internal and external factors , he said .
He said the economic growth rate target of 6.3 percent for 2007 was expected to be driven by robust investment , non-oil / non-gas exports , public consumption and relatively strong global economic performance .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI decided Tuesday to maintain its key rate at 8.25 percent for the second month in a row on the prospects for the country achieving the inflation rate targets of 6 , plus or minus 1 , percent and 5 , plus or minus 1 , percent for 2007 and 2008 respectively .
The decision to maintain the key rate known as BI rate was designed to minimalize the impact of a possible upheaval on the economy although it continued to expand until July , Budi Mulia , director of the central bank's strategic planning and public relations , said following a meeting of the bank's board of governors here .
With the key rate remaining at 8.25 percent , the room for the banking sector to cut lending rates in support of the real sector's growth would remain available , he said .
The central bank noted that banking loans grew by 4.4 percent to Rp38.5 trillion in July from a month earlier , he said .
Debt rating agency Moody's Investors Service said Tuesday it has put the ratings of 11 publicly-listed Indonesian banks' long-term foreign currency debts and deposits under review for possible upgrades .
The step was taken after the agency had taken the same step on the ratings of the government's foreign debts , Beatrice Woo , vice president and senior credit officer of Moody's , said in a statement .
The number of life insurance policy holders in the first semester of 2007 increased by 94 percent , with 30 percent of the total number comprising unitlink product subscribers , an industry spokesperson said .
Many people had transferred their money from banks to insurance companies following a decrease in bank interest rate and in deposit insurance , chairman of the Indonesian Life Insurance Companies Association AAJI Evelina Fadil Pietruschka said in a press conference on an upcoming international seminar on Million Dollar Round Table here Tuesday .
Up to now , AAJI has 6 million of personal life insurance holders and 25 million insurance groups with a total assets of Rp80 trillion .
Considering that Indonesian population has reached 220 million , I am sure that life insurance business will grow to Rp100 billion by the ebnd of this year , she said .
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boediono said that there was no trade war between Indonesia and China in connection with the finding of hazardous substances in both countries' goods .
There is no trade war and it should not happen , the minister said at the Finance Ministry building in response to reports that the two nations had mutually banned certain goods in their bilateral trade .
He said the finding of chemical substances in some of their goods was something normal and could happen any time such as had happened in the past with Indonesian exports to the United States and Australia .
PT Global Mediacom Tbk announced on Monday it has bought 157,392,500 shares from PT Mobile-8 Telecom Tbk at the price of Rp290.9 each .
The purchase of Mobile-8 shares was made from August 3-14 is intended to gain strategic ownership ,
As per July 30 this year , Mobile-8 was 39.71 percent owned by Global Mediacom , 6.02 percent by Asia Link BV , 5.16 percent by Qualcom Inc. and the rest by the public .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has asked national banks to boost economic growth with their equity by providing credits to productive sectors and micro , small and medium businesses UMKM .
All financial and capital resources like bank credits should take advantage of the construction of power plants , trasportation and infrastructure .
Without these three elements , the economy will not run well , and reduce competitiveness and investment , he said here on Wednesday .
In addition , the national banks should also support the development of investment , boosting exports , industries , agriculture and services as well as the real sector for a substantial contribution to economic growth .
I am calling on you at Bank of Indonesia and leaders of other banks to make available your credits to finance economic growth .
For increasing their equity , national banks should support the development of micro , small and medium businesses , he said .
Economic development using one's own equity , the president added , should be made as an ideology in the economic development of the country for the sake of the people .
Economic development with equity should be made an ideology , a choice , and paradigm which will enable us to make progress with the participation of the people , he said , adding that there was no use to pursue a 6-7 percent growth if it is only designed to strengtheng the conomic fundamentals , he said .
In addition , decisions on channeling indirect credits should not be made in legal and criminal cases such as in non performing loans .
Lippo Group has set aside US $ 650 million for a broadband multimedia business to be developed by its subsidiary , First Media , in the next four years , a spokesman said .
Lippo Group has a commitment to implement an information , communication and entertainment business project to meet high demand for private and group broadband connectivity , First Media chief executive officer F. Feliciano said here Thursday .
Lippo Group which already has a hybrid fiber coaxial network can provide the largest broadband network in Indonesia and become a prime mover in the development of internet access , he said .
He said the value of global entertainment and media industry development will reach $ 18 trillion in the next few years .
This is a very interesting industry. First Media will carry out the project based on available opportunities , he said .
The prospects of the market are very bright as only 500,000 of 40 million television owners in Indonesia utilize cable television and only 2 million out of 18 million internet users subscribe to internet network services , he said .
First Media which has become the country's largest cable television program and broadband internet provider had set itself the target of selling its broadband network to more than 1 million homes in 2009 , he added .
Publicly-listed tin mining company PT Timah Persero Tbk reported a net profit of Rp.780.8 billion , or Rp.1,551 per share for the first semester of 2007
which was 31.6 times the Rp.23.9 billion profit it recorded in a corresponding period in 2006 .
The net profit increase was attributed to higher average selling price of refined tin as well as higher production and sales volumes of refined tin , PT Timah said here on Thursday .
The company's unaudited consolidated Financial Statement also reported that world tin prices had strengthened since the fourth quarter of 2006 as a result of law enforcement on tin mining in Bangka Island .
During the first half of 2007 , tin prices on the LME had tended to increase from US $ 11,620 per ton at the beginning of the year to US $ 14,050 per ton at the end of the first half of 2007 with an average of US $ 13,393 per ton .
Meanwhile , the average price on the LME in the same period in 2006 was recorded at US $ 8,047 per ton .
The higher sales volume was in line with the company's higher refined tin production during the first half of 2007 which amounted to 32,567 metric tons , or 54 percent higher compared to refined tin production in the same period of 2006 at 21,134 metric tons .
Total sales income during the first half of 2007 amounted to Rp.4,078.4 billion , or 136 percent higher than Rp.1,729.4 billion in the first half of 2006 .
Of the total sales income , 90.9 percent or Rp.3,706.2 billion was contributed by the sale of refined tin , while the remaining 9,1 percent was contributed by the sale of coal at Rp.351.5 billion , engineering services at Rp.13.7 billion , ship docking services at Rp.6.1 billion , and exploration services at Rp.1,0 billion .
The Surabaya Stock Exchange BES said on Thursday its net profit in the first half of 2007 fell 44.26 percent to Rp487.311 million from the same period last year on unexpected consulting service costs .
State-owned coal mining company PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam PTBA will relocate its coal briquette factory to a new site in Tanjung Enim , South Sumatra province , a spokesman said .
Media reports that we will relocate our factory to Lampung province are not true , PTBA Corporate Secretary Eko Budhiwijayanto said here on Friday .
Eko made the statement in response to reports that PTBA would relocate its coal briquette factory to an area in Lampung province .
The new location sits on 13 million tons of good quality coal deposits .
PTBA has been relocating a number of its mining facilities such as vehicle pool , mechanical assistance facility , K-3 office and a number of other facilities .
The relocation of these facilities was in the framework of the company's long term plan , he said .
Eko said construction of the new factory was expected to start at the beginning of 2008 .
The company would familiarize all it shareholders with he plan in September 2007 .
PTBA Tanjung Enim was established in 1997 with a production capacity of 10,000 tons per annum .
In 2006 , the company's coal briquette production reached 6,300 tons of which 30 percent was supplied to consumers in South Sumatra and 70 percent to Jakarta and its buffer cities of Bogor , Bekasi and Tangerang .
The realization of the company's production was small because briquettes were not competitive compared to subsidized kerosene , Eko said .
Publicly-listed PT Indonesia Air Transport IATA has won a US $ 49.9 million contract with ConocoPhilips Indonesia for the leasing of 3 EC155B1 helicopters , an IATA executive said .
On September 10 , 2007 we received a letter of intent from ConocoPhilips dated September 7 to lease three of our helicopters , IATA finance director Krisman Tarigan said here Wednesday .
The letter of intent said ConocoPhilips would lease the choppers for five years , namely from February 1 , 2008 to January 2013 .
Publicly-listed PT Bank Victoria International has officially acquired 99.80 percent or 8.233 million of Bank Swaguna's 8.25 million shares with the signing of a relevant agreement by the two parties last September 7 , a spokesman said .
Bank Victoria was also planning to increase Bank Swaguna's capital from Rp2.5 billion per December 2006 to Rp80 billion by late this year , Bank Victoria Director Daroel O. Aboebakar said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Thursday .
The injection of more capital into Bank Swaguna would be done to meet the capital adequacy ratio requirement for commercial banks under the Indonesian Banking Architecture scheme , Daroel said .
Bank Swaguna which Bank Victoria bought from its main shareholders , the Moeis family , would eventually be developed into its sharia division , he said .
However , the conversion into sharia bank would not be done in the immediate future but in stages until next year .
Bank Swaguna will continue to be operated as a conventional bank until it is turned into a sharia bank in 2008 , he said .
PT Ramayana Lestari Sentosa RALS , one of the country's largest retail chains , failed to acquire 55 percent of PT Alfa Retailindo ALFA's shares as the companies were unable to agree on some of the terms .
Our plan to purchase 55 percent of ALFA's shares failed to materialize as we could not agree on a number of clauses in the draft sales and purchase agreement , RALS Director Suryanto said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here on Monday .
Both sides signed a note on September 21 canceling the planned sales and purchase agreement , he said .
State bank BRI is ready to become an anchor bank as it is sound and is performing well , its director , Sofyan Bashir , said here Tuesday .
Bank BRI will also turn into a national bank which will focus its mission on micro - and small-scale business in 2010 , he said in a hearing at the House of Representatives DPR building .
As of June 2007 , Bank BRI's core capital stood at Rp14.2 trillion and its capital adequacy ratio CAR reached 17.93 percent or higher than the 12 percent stipulated for an anchor bank .
TIER I was recorded at 15.96 percent or higher than the 6 percent required for an anchor bank .
Non-performing loans reached 1.39 percent or lower than the 5 percent required for an anchor bank .
BRI's credit growth , however , was still recorded at 20.7 percent or lower than the 22 percent stipulated for an anchor bank .
The composition of micro and small scale business and retail credit stood at 85.75 percent and corporate credit at 14.25 percent .
Publicly-listed cement maker PT Semen Gresik Tbk is planning to issue US $ 400 million bonds next year to meet nearly 50 percent of its need for funds from external sources .
We project proceeds from the issuance of bonds to account for 50 percent of Semen Gresik's external funding sources , the company's finance director , Cholil Hasan , said here Monday .
The company's total need for funds in five years' time was estimated at US $ 1.3 billion with US $ 500 million of it expected to originate from internal sources , he said .
The dollar-denominated bonds would be issued next year due to the uncertain conditions of the bond market this year , he said .
We still depend on market conditions .
The present bond market is not yet stable , he said .
Besides the dollar-denominated bonds , PT Semen Gresik would also issue local currency bonds next year with the amount still to be adjusted to the company's plan to make bank loans , he said .
It is possible for us to issue both of the bonds next year .
The issuance of bonds is expected to increase leverage and reduce cost capital
PT Astra Internasional Tbk , one of Indonesia's largest business conglomerates , has decided to pay an interim dividend of Rp160 per share for the book year ending December 31 , 2007 .
The amount of the dividend was decided at a meeting of the company's board of directors on September 2007 , 2007 , PT Astra Internasional's corporate secretary , Aminuddin , said here on Monday .
Accordingly , the cum-dividend period in the regular and negotiation market was October 29 , 2007 and the ex-dividend period in the regular and negotiation market October 30 , 2007 .
Coordinating Minister for Economy Boediono has admitted that the national economy in the past three years had yet to see promising and significant development , although the government had worked hard to implement a number of policies .
We have worked hard to reach our national economic goals but we still have a long way to go. We have done what we had to do in the context of global and national economy but the results have yet to be promising , Boediono said after attending a ceremony to welcome visiting Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas at Merdeka Palace here on Monday .
He made the statement in response to a question on national economic development in comparison with other development sectors during the past three years of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's government .
The government's economic team came under public criticism because its performance had yet to reduce the poverty and unemployment rates .
Commenting on the high unemployment rate , Boediono said the government would make every effort to increase investment and to absorb as much manpower as possible .
But he admitted that increasing investment in the country remained difficult because of the complicated licensing procedures .
However , the minister expressed optimism that economic growth this year would reach 6.3 percent and 6.8 percent in 2009 .
I am optimistic that economic growth will reach 6.3 percent this year and edge up to 6.5 to 6.8 percent in 2009 , Boediono said .
Concerning the world oil pricce which had hit US $ 90 per barrel , the coordinating minister said he was still observing the trend in the world oil price whether it would continue to rise until after the end of the year .
Let's wait and see if the world oil price will continue to fluctuate. But if it remains high , I am afraid it will have a negative impact on our national economy , he said .
Domestic car sales in September fell to 41,035 units from 41,471 units a month earlier , data show .
PT Arona Bina Sejati Tbk , a wood processing company , dismissed all its employees on Oct 10 , 2007 in connection with the company's restructurization , its president director said .
The mass lay-off was part of the company's restructurization and the settlement of its debts to wood suppliers , the company's president director , Chang Yen Pao , told the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ here on Monday .
He said PT Arona Bina Sejati had received some Rp8 billion from PT Benjamin to settle all of its debts .
PT Benjamin has expressed its wish to buy PT Arona's assets , Chang said .
The Indonesian economy in the third quarter of 2007 grew by 3.9 percent , bringing the calendar year growth to 6.3 percent and the year-on-year growth to 6.5 percent , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
The GDP growth , exclusive of oil and gas , in the year to Sept 30 was 6.8 percent , or higher than the overall GDP growth which reached 6.3 percent .
This is something normal as the growth of oil lifting and so forth usually goes downward , he said .
The GDP in the first nine months of 2007 totalled Rp2,901.3 trillion , raising the hope that the GDP would reach Rp4,000 trillion by the end of 2007 , he said .
He said household consumption contributed 5.3 percent to the year-on-year growth , government consumption 6.5 percent , gross fixed capital formation 8.8 percent and exports 7.8 percent .
In terms of regional economic growth , Java contributed the most to the third quarter GDP with 59.3 percent , followed by Sumatra 23.2 percent , Kalimantan 9 percent , Sulawesi 4 percent and other regions 4.5 percent , he said .
He said the government hoped inflation in the fourth quarter of 2007 would be the same as the current calendar inflation figure of 6.3 percent .
If we look at the impact of global oil price hikes , we must keep sectors that are not directly affected by the global oil price hikes .
The sectors are construction , trade , telecommunication , financial and services and agricultural sectors , he said .
Economic Coordinating Ministry senior adviser M Ikhsan predicted that Indonesia would no longer be a net oil importer in 2008 because of increased oil production capacity and economization of domestic fuel oil .
Possibly 2008 will be the last year for Indonesia to be a net oil importer .
Whatever will happen in 2008 , there will be an increase in our oil and gas production , he said at a seminar on national growth amid global world oil price fluctuations in Jakarta on Thursday .
So far Indonesia was in the category of net oil importers whereas the total value of its oil imports was higher the value of its oil exports .
According to him , a change could happen in Indonesia's status as oil production in the Cepu Block would reach at least 30 of capacity in 2009 and 100 percent in 2010 .
In addition , according to him fuel oil consumption would sharply decline in 2009 on account of the operation of gas-fired and thermal power plants .
He also said the kerosene-to-gas conversion program would become effective in 2009 and be completed in 2010
while supply of gas would also increase as Tangguh gas fields would start producing with partial capacity in 2008 and with full capacity in 2009 .
A World Bank statement that Indonesia's poverty rate will have dropped 2.6 percent by 2008 is not more than an effort to justify the government's poverty programs , a private economic analyst said .
Henri Saparini , an analyst at the Advisory Group on Economics , Industry and Trade Econit , was referring to a World Bank projection that Indonesia's poverty rate in 2008 would be 42.6 percent 100.7 million people or down from 45.2 perent 105.3 million people in 2007 .
The projection appeared to be just an attempt to justify the government's poverty alleviation progrms most of which were funded by the World Bank , Henri said here Friday .
He said the poverty rate projection in the latest World Bank review was made using its new calculation method .
As we know the World Bank has introduced a new method to calculate poverty rates , namely one in which economic growth , poverty programs and poverty budgets are taken into account , he said .
Henri said if the World Bank wanted to use these components in calculating the poverty rate , it should also pay heed to the sources of economic growth , the direction of poverty programs and the period in which the poverty budget was realized , If the sources of growth are not labor-intensive or the poverty programs are not directly aimed at the poor or the poverty budget is realized at the end of the year , the poverty rate will still increase , he said .
Previously , the World Bank had projected that Indonesia's economy would grow 6.4 percent in 2008 , or more rapidly than its projection of 6.3 percent in 2007 , This , according to the World Bank , would reduce Indonesia's poverty rate .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has upgraded its rating for PT Bank NISP Tbk to idAA - from idA + previously , and its subordinated bond I / 2003 to idA + from idA .
The outlook of the ratings is stable , Pefindo analysts Hendro Utomo dan Yans Simbolon said here on Thursday .
The analysts in their statement said that the upgrading of the bank's ratings reflected a strong business position of NISP and the asset quality which was under control , including sound capitalization .
However , the ratings were still mitigated by a moderate profitability .
NISP Bank is one of the oldest bank in Indonesia .
Since 2004 , OCBC Bank of Singapore through OCBC Overseas Investment Pte. Ltd. , OCBC's full subsidiary , has been the majority shareholder of NISP Bank , controlling 72.4 percent of the bank's shares as per June 30 , 3007 .
Other share holders of NISP included International Finance Corporation 7.17 percent and the public 20.43 percent .
Indonesian stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has upgraded its ratings for PT Bank Negara Indonesia Persero TBk or BNI and the state-owned bank's bonds I / 2003 due on July 10 , 2011 , to idA + from idA previously .
The rating also showed the bank's strong capital basis , strong liquidity after the right issues , as well as BNI's strong business position , the statement said .
However , the national rating agency said that the bank's rating was still mitigated by the weak quality of its assets .
Up to date , BNI has a large coverage of banking commercial activity through its 972 offices and 2,325 ATMs throughout Indonesia .
The bank has around 18,649 employees to support its daily business activities .
As per August 2007 after the right issue , the Indonesian Government owned 73.26 percent of BNI's shares , and the remaining 26.74 percent were owned by other share holders including the public .
Publicly-listed Bank Mega Tbk will issue a 10-year subordinated bond of Rp1 trillion to strengthen its capital and get long-term financing sources .
In its prospectus published on Thursday , Bank Mega said the bond which offeres purchase option after the fifth year of issue will carry fixed interest with interest rate in the first five years to be lower than that in the ensuing years .
However , the fixed interest has yet to be set .
The bank expected the bond to be traded at the Surabaya Stock Exchange starting on December 12 , 2007 .
Acting as bond issue underwriters will be PT Mega Capital Indonesia , PT Standard Chartered Securities Indonesia , and PT AAA Securities with Bank BRI as a trustee agent .
Fitch Ratings on Wednesday assigned a national long-term rating of ' A + idn ' , an individual rating of ' D ' , and a support rating of ' 4 ' to publicly-listed Bank Mega Tbk .
The outlook was stable , Fitch said in a press statement .
At the same time , Fitch assigned an expected rating of ' Aidn ' to the bank's proposed 10-year subordinated bond I / 2007 , amounting to a maximum of IDR1.5 trillion. The final rating is contingent upon receipt of final documents conform to information already received .
Along with a bigger increase in non-interest income , although about half was a one-off trading profit , Bank Mega booked a higher pre-tax return on investment ROA of 2.5 % in the first semester of 2007 compared to 0.8 % in 2006 and 1.2 % in 2005 .
Fitch expects Bank Mega to sustain its modest profitability in the next one to two years with support from benign economic conditions , while noting constraints on profitability from its improving but still less favourable funding composition as compared to those of its peers .
The bank's total CAR of 12.8 % Tier 1 : 11.7 % at the end of the first semester of 2007 was much lower than the industry average of about 20 % .
Rupiah on the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market tended to be stable against US dollar on Friday morning as market agents prudently bought and sold the two units .
The rate of rupiah was recorded at Rp9,142 / 9,145 per US dollar compared to Rp9,143 / 9,147 to the greenback the day before .
Money market observer Edwin Sinaga said rupiah stood at a narrow range as seen from the price of the two currencies , namely , Rp9,150 / 9,147 to US dollar .
Such a condition showed that rupiah was still on the normal position although there were worries about unstable global economy , he said .
He pointed out that the rate of the Indonesian currency was held by the strengthening price of world crude oil which exceeded US $ 90 per barrel but it was offset by the ameliorating regional stock market .
Rupiah tended to strengthen also due to the weakening rate of US dollar against yen and euro , he said .
He said the expected global economic fluctuation which was predicted to create economic lethargy might not occur as a number of top-shelf banks have announced that they have performed better .
Thus , the global economic fluctuation would not happen in Asia , particularly Indonesia , he said .
adding that the government was even optimistic to reach the target of the 2008 economic growth by 6.8 percent although the world crude oil price tended to strengthen .
The government has made new policies to overcome possible economic fluctuation by taking efficient measures including setting the amount of state budget subsidies , he said .
Meanwhile , US dollar dropped against Japanese yen to 114.08 compared to the previous rate of 114.20 while the US greenback was on a stable position to euro at 1,4325 .
US dollar dropped to yen as data showed an indication of weakening US economy and the Fed might lower its interest rate .
Rupiah was expected to strengthen in the afternoon after three days price corrections , Edwin said .
The Indonesian central bank predicts the country's economic growth will reach 6.3 percent in the third quarter of 2007 , driven by increasing consumption and exports .
While in the fourth quarter it is expected to reach 6.4 percent because credit distribution will be more expansive , the bank's director of economic research and monetary policy , Made Sukada , said here on Tuesday .
The central bureau of statistics will officially announce record of the country's economic growth in the third quarter on November 15 .
Sukada said the country's balance of payments in the third quarter showed a surplus although it was not as big as in the second quarter .
The country's foreign exchange reserves reached US $ 54.2 billion by the end of October or were enough for paying imports and foreign debts for five months , he said .
He said his office would closely monitor the effect of the hike in the year-on-year inflation in October from 6.03 percent to 6.13 percent that occurred in spite of the fact that inflation in the month reached 6.98 percent or higher than September's inflation of 6.95 percent .
The inflation rate was driven by increasing prices as a result of a hike in the prices of world commodities besides high public expectation of future inflation .
Pressures from volatile foods and administered price are lower than the month before , he said .
Made said the central bank's target would remain unchanged from its early prediction , namely six plus and minus one percent and five plus and minus one percent in 2008 .
Among the risks to be monitored is the world oil price hike that continues increasing the prices of goods including crude palmoil , rubber and other agricultural export commodities , he said .
The central bank would also closely monitor the impact of the subprime mortgage crisis that has not yet settled down , he said .
In 2008 Made predicts the country's economy will grow more than 6.5 percent because imports from emerging markets like China would remain high .
Although imports from advanced countries will probably drop as a result of slowing world economy caused by oil price hike they will be compensated for by imports from the emerging markets , he said .
He said the central bank predicts the world oil price would decline because of a slowing world economy and probably increasing production from OPEC .
Bank Indonesia BI Tuesday kept its key rate at 8.25 percent for the fourth month in a row after it had conducted comprehensive evaluation of the present economic developments and identified the existing risk factors .
BI also observed the upward trend in global crude prices and the further impact of subprime mortgage crisis in the US , Made Sukada , the director of the central bank's economic research and monetary policy , said .
He said the key rate , locally known as BI Rate , still had a room to go down by 25 basis points to 8 percent until the end of this year .
The BI Rate still has a wide room to fall due to the difference between our interest and other countries ' , he said .
The decision to keep the key rate unchanged would not have an adverse impact on the country's economic growth , he said .
The BI Rate at the current level is still able to stimulate the country's economic growth in the future as banks still have room to lower their lending rates , he said .
Indonesia in cooperation with Japan has organized the same workshop twice , namely Workshop on Deposit Insurance System and Valuation in January 2004 and Workshop on Deposit Insurance System in July 2004 .
About 60 delegates from various member countries of ASEM will attend the workshop here on Wednesday and Thursday .
Besides Indonesia , countries that have confirmed to take part in the workshop are Brunei Darussalam , Cambodia , Czech Republic , China , Germany , Laos , Malaysia , Thailand and Vietnam .
Speakers will among others come from the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank , the European Commission , Japan and Thailand .
Cellular telephone operator Telkomsel said it would obey Monday's order by the Business Competition Supervisory Commission KPPU to lower its average tariffs of mobile communication services by up to 15 percent .
In line with our policy of obeying regulations in operating the company , PT Telkomsel will respect whatever decision is made in a legal process in Indonesia , including the decision of KPPU , PT Telkomsel Prsident Director Kiskenda Suriahardja said here on Tuesday .
He said Telkomsel whose majority stake 65 percent was owned by the government through state telecommunication company PT Telkom would always run its business based on regulations in force .
Basically , Telkomsel will always abide by existing regulations and law-based decisions but for the sake of clarity Telkomsel will appeal the KPPU decision , he said .
He said Telkomsel would appeal the KPPU decision because it felt that so far it had always abided by the regulations and had never quoted excessive prices .
Domestic motorcycle sales in the first ten months of 2007 stood at 3,807,985 units compared to 4,427,342 units throughout last year .
Honda motorcycle maker took a commanding lead , selling 1,707,339 units in the first ten months ended on Oct. 31 , according to data from the Indonesian Motorcycle Manufacturers Association AISI made available on Tuesday .
The sales of motorcycles bearing Yamaha , Suzuki and Kawasaki brands reached 2,100,646 units .
Credit rating agency Pefindo has affirmed its idA - ratings for state-owned Bank Ekspor Indonesia and the bank's outstanding bond I / 2003 , bond II / 2005 , and bond III / 2006 .
The ratings reflect the bank's strong position in export credit segment , strong assets quality , and favorable liquidity profile , the agency said in a statement on Monday .
However , marginal growths of export financing during the past several years despite the promising potential , have constrained the above ratings .
Outlook for the ratings have been revised to ` Positive ' from ` Stable ' considering the possibility of the bank's transformation to become Indonesia's Export Credit Agency ECA in the near future .
Bank Ekspor Indonesia is a state-owned institution established to facilitate the country's export transactions. The establishment of the bank was based on the government's decree , while the operating license was issued by Bank Indonesia the central bank in 1999 .
Its main business activities are providing financing , guarantees , consultation and other supporting services for export-oriented activities .
Until now , the bank's business mostly comprises of lending activities divided into direct financing to exporters , as well as refinancing other banks' export credits .
Credit rating agency Pefindo has upgraded its corporate ratings for state electricity firm PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara PLN and its bond VIII / 2006 of Rp2.2 trillion and Ijarah bond I / 2006 of Rp200 billion to idA + and idA + sy from idA and idAsy .
The ratings upgrade reflects strong and proven support from the Indonesian government , the company's superior market position and relatively strong liquidity , Pefindo said in a statement issued on Monday .
However , the ratings are still constrained by inflexible tariff adjustments , high exposure to foreign exchange currency risks and high production cost in the medium term , the agency said .
PLN which is wholly owned by the state is engaged in power generation , transmission and distribution throughout the country .
Following the cancellation of law No. 20 / 2002 , PLN retained its monopoly on electricity supply in Indonesia .
Indonesia's inflation rate was recorded at 0.18 percent in November 2007 , fueled by an increase in the prices of clothing .
The inflation figure brought on-year inflation to 6.71 percent and calendar year inflation to 5.43 percent , Central Bureau of Statistics BPS Chief Rusman Heriawan said here Monday .
The prices of clothing rose as many people bought clothes after instead of before the Lebaran post-fasting month festivities , he said .
The prices of almost all goods which were in great demand during the Lebaran festivities dropped in November , he said .
The price of the cheapest rice only increased 0.09 percent and that of standard rice rose 0.16 percent .
The price of chicken meat dropped 13.56 percent , that of beef declined 17.23 percent and that of kerosene fell 7.45 percent , he said .
However , the price of cooking oil slightly increased 0.73 percent and that of wheat powder rose 4.03 percent , he said .
Publicly-listed tin mining company PT Timah Tbk has set itself the target of producing 60,000 tons of tin next year compared to the 2007 production forecast of 57,000 to 59,000 tons .
The 2007 production represents a significant increase if compared to our production target of 50,000 tons for that year .
This is due to high demand for the commodity on the global market , the company's finance director , Krisnha Syarief said here Tuesday .
PT Timah expected its profit in 2008 to increase by 20 percent from its target of Rp1.5 trillion for this year , he said .
Income in 2007 was estimated at Rp7.5 trillion , he said .
The Japanese government has agreed to extend a Yen 23.18 billion loan to Indonesia to fund a program to tackle natural disasters causing both economic and social losses .
A memorandum of understanding on the loan was signed here on Tuesday by Japanese Ambassador to Indonesia Shin Ebihara and the secretary of the Directorate General for Asia Pacific and Africa of the Foreign Ministry , Kenssy Dwi Ekaningsih .
A statement from the embassy said the loan was intended to support restoration and rehabilitation work in the aftermath of the disasters that occurred in Indonesia in 2007 and also as an effort to improve the Indonesian government's disaster managemnt policy and system .
A total of 129 disasters occurred in Indonesia in the past 10 years , causing the state a loss of some US $ 9.64 billion and a death toll of 320,000 people .
The United Nations Children's Fund UNICEF has extended a US $ 131.5 million grant to Indonesia to improve the welfare of children and help to fulfil their rights in 2008 .
A press statement from the UNICEF said on Monday the grant was meant to support the government efforts to improve the situation in mother-and-child health services , nutrition , access to clean water and environmental sanitation .
The grant which was US $ 11.5 million higher than the amount UNICEF had given for 2007 was to cover programs which will be started in 2008 would be implemented in 104 districts in 17 provinces .
A memorandum of understanding on the grant was scheduled to be signed on Monday .
PT International Nickel Indonesia INCO and the energy and mineral resources ministry are currently discusssing a plan to review the rate of the company's royalties to the government , the company's chief said .
We and the mineral resources ministry are discussing the rate of our royalties but we have not yet decided how much we have to pay to the government , PT INCO President Director Arif S Siregar said here on Monday .
He said under its first work contract PT INCO was required to pay royalties on a floating basis , namely based on the nickel price prevailing in the world market .
Based on the signed 2008-2025 work contract , however , PT INCO was required to pay royalties at a flat rate based on the assumed nickel price of US $ 7 - US $ 8 per pound .
Indonesia's economic growth rate in 2008 is expected to reach six percent only , instead of 6.8 percent as officially projected , an economic researcher said here on Monday .
Indonesia's economic growth rate next year is estimated to settle at between six and 6.5 percent only .
The higher figure can be reached only if the economic performance level in 2007 can be maintained next year , Latif Adam , an economic researcher at the Indonesian Institute of Sciences LIPI said .
The International Monetary Fund IMF has predicted that the world's economic growth would slow down from 5.2 percent to 4.8 percent in 2008 .
Only Africa will experience an increase in economic growth from 5.7 percent to 6.7 percent in 2008 , he said .
The LIPI researcher said the United State would see an economic growth stagnation at 1.9 percent while the growth of the European Union's economy would drop from 2.5 percent to 2.1 percent and Japan's from two percent to 1.7 percent .
He said about 45 percent of Indonesia's direct exports would be shipped to the three destinations .
There were also indications that Indonesia's exports to Singapore , Hong Kong and China would be reexported to the United States , Europe and Japan .
Economic sluggishness in the three destinations of Indonesia's exports will automatically disturb Indonesia's economic performance .
And the world's hope for economic drive is likely to turn to China , India and Russia , Adam said .
But the problem was that the IMF prediction indicated that China's and India's economies would also slow down .
In the 2007 - 2008 period , China's economic growth was expected to drop from 11.5 percent to 10 percent and India's from 8.9 percent to 8.4 percent , he said .
Rupiah on the Jakarta Inter-Bank Spot Market on Monday morning dropped to Rp9,370 / 9,375 against US dollar compared to Rp9,335 / 9,375 to the greenback on the closing session last weekend .
The Indonesian unit plunged by 35 points as market agents actively bought US dollar before the end of the year , private bank PT Bank Saudara's foreign exchange analyst , Rully Nova , said here Monday .
Rully said it would be hard for rupiah to near the level of Rp9,400 per US dollar as Bank Indonesia the central bank would again enter the market .
The central bank would likely release its dollar to make rupiah away from the psychological limit of Rp9,400 against the US currency , he said .
Motorcycle distributor PT Wahanaartha Harsaka plans to sell 590 million shares or 29.5 percent of its fully paid-up capital through an initial public offering IPO in January 2008 .
The shares will be offered from January 23 to 25 and listed at the Indonesian Stock Exchange BEI on January 31 , the company said in a statement on Tuesday .
Wahanaartha posted a net profit of Rp11.50 billion in the first nine months of 2007 , up from Rp7.84 billion throughout last year .
Economic Coordinating Ministry senior adviser M Ikhsan predicted that Indonesia would no longer be a net oil importer in 2008 because of increased oil production capacity and economization of domestic fuel oil .
Possibly 2008 will be the last year for Indonesia to be a net oil importer .
Whatever will happen in 2008 , there will be an increase in our oil and gas production , he said at a seminar on national growth amid global world oil price fluctuations in Jakarta on Thursday .
He also said the kerosene-to-gas conversion program would become effective in 2009 and be completed in 2010 .
Henri said if the World Bank wanted to use these components in calculating the poverty rate , it should also pay heed to the sources of economic growth , the direction of poverty programs and the period in which the poverty budget was realized .
If the sources of growth are not labor-intensive or the poverty programs are not directly aimed at the poor or the poverty budget is realized at the end of the year , the poverty rate will still increase , he said .
Previously , the World Bank had projected that Indonesia's economy would grow 6.4 percent in 2008 , or more rapidly than its projection of 6.3 percent in 2007 , This , according to the World Bank , would reduce Indonesia's poverty rate .
Britain is the second biggest investor in Indonesia after Japan but many Biritsh businessmen have complained about lack of information on new investment opportunities , Indonesia's chief investment official said .
Britain is one of the important countries for Indonesia as its business players have remained the second biggest investor in Indonesia since 1967 , chairman of the Capital Investment Coordination Board BKPM , Muhammad Lutfi , said here on Wednesday .
Lutfi was here to promote investment opportunities in Indonesia among British business people at a business luncheon held by the Indonesian Embassy and the BKPM Representative Office in Lhe British capital .
Publicly-listed Bank OUB Buana Tbk said on Friday its net profit in the third quarter of 2007 rose 10.52 percent to Rp357.06 billion from Rp326.07 billion in the same period last year .
A rise in net interest income and other operating revenues propped up the third-quarter net profit , the bank said in a statement issued on Friday .
Total assets in the first nine months ended Sept. 30 , 2007 rose 8.02 percent to Rp18.19 trillion from Rp16.84 trillion a year earlier , the statement said .
Three Indonesian companies intend to invest US $ 500 million in the construction of a phosphate acid factory in Morocco under an investment cooperation agreement with the Middle Eastern country , Indonesia's special envoy to the Middle East Alwi Shihab said .
Speaking to the press after a meeting with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono at the State Palace here Friday , Shihab identified the three companies as PT Petrokimis Gresik , Medco Energi Corporation and Bosowa Group .
A Memorandum of Understanding MoU on the three Indonesian firms' plan was expected to be signed in 2008 , he said .
Citing examples , Alwi said construction company Waskita Karya had been offered to invest in a project worth US $ 1.5 million in Saudi Arabia .
The project would include development of a housing complex and apartments in University City .
Another Indonesian construction company , Adhi Karya , had won a contract to build apartment towers in Qatar , Alwi said .
Publicly-listed sea transportation service company PT Arpeni Pratama Ocean Line Tbk Arpeni plans to issue local currency bonds worth Rp500 billion in the first quarter of 2008 to pay its debts .
As of June 30 , 2007 , the company's debts totaled Rp2.65 trillion , Arpeni corporate secretary Ronald Nangoi said on Tuesday .
Next year the company will need a large amount of fund to buy ships , the company's president director , Oentoro Surya said .
PT Bumi Resources Tbk , Indonesia's largest publicly-listed coal exporter , plans to acquire Australian mining company Herald Resources Ltd. for US $ 455 million .
The management of Bumi Resources has submitted its bid to Herald for US $ 2.25 per share .
Publicly-listed multifinance company PT BFI Finance Indonesia has obtained a US $ 30 million loan from Standard Chartered Bank .
The company would use the loan to support its leasing business this year and next year , corporate secretary Cornelius Henry said in a statement to the Indonesia Stock Exchange BEI on Thursday , the loan payable in 39 months is channeled under a secured term loan facility .
Few buyers who speculate to buy US dollars before The Fed the US central bank lowers its interest rate next year continue to buy the US currency , Foreign Exchange Analyst of private bank PT Bank Saudara , Rully Nova , said here Thursday .
The drop in the rupiah rate is only temporary in nature due to a sudden need of US dollar before New Year's Eve , and rupiah is expected to strengthen next week , he said .
He said rupiah would likely strengthen due to the weakening US dollar against Japanese yen , one US dollar is now recorded at 114 yens and the US unit is expected to weaken further to below the level of 100 yens .
Such a condition would likely make The Fed lower its interest rate next month , the US dollar weakens due to the housing case in the US and the credit tightening measure which have inflicted losses on US financial institutions , he said .
The rupiah rate will likely approach the level of Rp9,300 to US dollar if The Fed drops its interest rate by 50 basis points , he said .
The Fed lowered its interest rate by 25 basis points to 4.25 percent last month but rupiah only stood at a range between Rp9,370 / 9,390 to the US currency , he said .
Rully said he was optimistic that the government would continue to maintain the rupiah rate in order that the currency would not go down further to a worse position till the 2009 general elections .
He said the government should also heed the weakening economic growth in Europe and the United States as it would affect Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings although the domestic market remained conducive .
Credit rating agency Pefindo said on Thursday it has affirmed its ratings for publicly-listed paper maker PT Tjiwi Kimia Tbk. and the company's bond I / A of Rp58.68 billion due in October 2014 and bond I / B of Rp100 billion due in October 2017 .
PT Tjiwi Kimia produces a many types of paper , stationery and packaging material that are mostly sold in the export market .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX has projected that another 25 issuers will be listing their shares in 2007 , JSX president director Erry Firmansyah said here Tuesday .
JSX missed its target of 25 new issuers in 2006 , he said after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono opened 2007 trading at the floor .
JSX only secured 12 new issuers last year , increasing the number of issuers to 344 in 2006 .
JSX gained Rp3.004 trillion from initial public offerings IPO in 2006 .
Therefore Jakarta Stock Exchange officials have visited Surabaya , Semarang , Bandung , Malang , Samarinda , Makassar , Palembang , Padang and Batam to encourage some companies to make an IPO .
Indonesia's inflation rate in 2006 plunged to 6.60 percent from 17.11 percent a year earlier , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
Inflation in December 2006 reached 1.21 percent with the food stuff group contributing the highest inflation figure of 3.12 percent to the monthly inflation , BPS chief Rusman Heriawan said here Tuesday .
Both the government and Bank Indonesia central bank had projected the 2006 inflation rate at 8 , plus or minus 1 , percent .
The inflation rate from core components in December 2006 stood at 0.65 percent and the inflation rate from core components in the calender year January-December reached 6.03 percent , he said .
He said the food stuff group contributed the largest inflation of 3.05 percent to the 2006 inflation .
Rice prices rose 42.04 percent in 2006 , contributing 1.63 percent to the inflation , he said .
In December 2006 alone , rice prices went up by an average of 8.37 percent .
Rice prices in December rose by 8.37 percent from November 2006 .
The rice price reached a record high of 11.3 percent in the first three weeks of December and steadily fell so the rice prices averaged 8.37 percent in December , he said .
That is why we will summon them one by one , he said .
He said the benchmark his office had set was based upon observation of income tax payments and of situation of the CPO industry from 2005 until now so that correction would be made in case of a shortage .
If the case is not dealt with immediately they may have difficulties paying the shortage .
For 2007 , we are now still correcting their tax statements , he said .
Asked why his office prioritized the industrial sector for the tax examination Darwin said it was because the potential loss of the state was huge and in view of the soaring price of CPO in the international market .
We are still preparing the examination of other industries .
We will report it next month , he said .
The Japanese government acknowledges that Indonesia has made progress in improving its investment climate so that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will bring 150 top Japanese business executives in his visit to Jakarta next week , a Japanese official said here on Tuesday .
The Japanese prime minister's visit which will last from August 19 to 21 , 2007 will mark more progressive bilateral relations between Japan and Indonesia , Director General for Media Relations of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Mitsuo Sakaba told ANTARA .
Abe will be in Indonesia to pay a return visit to the one made by Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in Japan November 2006 .
Shinzo Abe and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono are scheduled to sign an Economic Partnership Agreement EPA in which Indonesian products will be allowed to swamp Japanese markets .
The Economic Partnership Agreement between Indonesia and Japan , would also enable Indonesian semi-professional workers to enter Japan .
There is a tight competition among Asian countries in attracting Japanese investment , he added .
That's why , Japan needed to make serious efforts in developing its investment climate .
Indonesia , as a large country , had exceptional potentials that could attract investors , Sakaba said .
He suggested that Indonesia prepare and settle many matters relating to investment such as infrastructure , labor law and remove barriers that hamper export-import activities .
The entourage of the Japanese prime minister will include also 51 top journalists .
The Indonesian Embassy in Tokyo has issued visas for 51 journalists who will accompany Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit to Jakarta .
Publicly-listed Bank Danamon Indonesia Tbk. on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding MoU with 15 leading property developer groups to provide residential property financing for a total of 53 property developments in the country .
The projects will be located in Jakarta , Sumatera , West Java , East Java , Sulawesi and Kalimantan as part of the bank's commitment to supporting the growth of the property sector in Indonesia , the bank said in an e-mailed statement .
We believe the macro economic environment has created a very good outlook for the consumer property market , Jerry Ng , the bank's vice president director , said .
Among the property developer groups were Sinar Mas , Ciputra , Summarecon , Lippo , Agung Podomoro , Agung Sedayu , Pembangunan Jaya , Metropolitan Land , Djarum , Damai Putra , and Lyman .
The signing of this MoU followed a similar event in Surabaya last May with 10 top property developer groups in Surabaya and the rest of East Java .
Bank Mandiri has been declared free of Bank Indonesia's intensive supervision after the bank managed to lower its non-performing loan NPL rate in two consecutive quarters to below five percent .
We Bank Mandiri have received a confirmation from BI today that we are no longer under the central bank's intensive supervisory coverage , President Director of Bank Mandiri Agus Martowaradojo told ANTARA after taking part in an orientation meeting for national business executives in Jakarta on Wednesday .
He said that this concerned the successful efforts of Bank Mandiri of lowering its NPL net to below five percent in the consecutive quarters in 2007 .
Bank Mandiri also came under BI's intensive supervisory coverage after its NPLs in 2005 reached more than five prcent , and until the end of 2006 the bank's NPLs still reached 5.9 percent .
Right now in the first quarter , Agus said , Bank Mandiri's NPL net reached 4.7 percent , which continued to decline to 3.9 percent in the second quarter .
Thus , Bank Mandiri is ready to become a regional champion , he said .
In the meantime , Bank Indonesia's Strategic Planning and Public relations Director confirmed that Bank Mandiri had been officially declared free of BI's intensive supervision .
Bank Mandiri's management had managed to make the necessary corrections as required by Bank Indonesia .
Bank Indonesia had managed to lower its NPL net to below five percent in two consecutive quarters , he told ANTARA by phone .
In the meantime , State Minister of State Enterprises Sofyan Djalil when asked what he thought of the matter , said state-owned banks should be constantly encouraged to boost their performance .
It is very good , and in the future we must see to it that Bank Mandiri and the other state banks are alwasys in a good condition , and would therefore always be very serious in dealing with their NPLs , he said .
Indonesian rating agency Pefindo has raised the rating of agribusiness company PT Charoen Pokphand Indonesia CPIN to idBBB + and the company's I / 2003 bonds worth Rp500 billion to idBBB , a spokesperson said .
The rating hike showed CPIN's strong business position and conducive business integration as well as stable profitability , Pefindo analyst Niken Indriasih said here Wednesday .
The rating , however , was still confined by relatively high leverage and high industrial risk , she said .
The fodder producer controls 99.99 percent of PT Charoen Pokphand Jaya Farm CPJF which deals with day-old chicken production .
As of March 31 , 2007 , CPIN which is engaged in production of cattle , poultry and shrimp feed , as well as processed chicken meat , poultry and other animal husbandry is 55.34 percent controlled by PT Surya Hidup Satwa , 13.59 percent by Royal Bank of Canada Asia Ltd , 7.33 percent by UBS AG Singapore and 23.74 percent by others .
Offshore oil and gas drilling contractor PT Apexindo Pratama Duta Tbk said on Wednesday its net profit in the first half of 2007 fell 7.9 percent to US $ 15 million from the same period last year due to a drop in non cash profit on swap transactions .
The drop in net profit caused earning per share to fall 25 percent to US $ 0.006 , the company said in a press statement .
The net profit in the first semester of 2007 merely originated from operational activities .
The profit or loss from swap transactions will not much affect the company because its financial statement is in the US dollar , Apexindo's corporate secretary , Ade R Satari , said .
Operational income in the first semester rose 19.2 percent to US $ 81.8 million , while profit before interest , tax , depreciation and amortization increased 28.7 percent to US $ 38.6 million thanks to a significant increase in income from the onshore rig segment .
The onshore rig segment contributed US $ 30.6 million to the operational income , up 46.4 percent from the same period last year .
The Finance Ministry has picked 16 would-be retail sales agents for the 2007 state bonds under the decision of the ministry's director general of loan management dated February 19 , 2007 .
The 16 companies are Trimegah Sekuritas , Danareksa Sekuritas , Valbury Asia Securities , Bank Central Asia , Bank Mandiri , Citibank , Lippobank , Bank Negara Indonesia , Bank Internasional Indonesia , Bank Rakyat Indonesia , Bank Permata , Bank Danamon Indonesia , Bank Panin , Bank Bukopin , Bank NISP , and Bank Mega , Director General of Loan Management Rahmat Waluyanto said in his official website on Tuesday .
The ministry is expected to name sales agents of the 2007 state bonds on Feb 27 .
In the issuance of state bonds in August 2006 , the government appointed 11 companies as sales agents .
They were Bank Bukopin , Bank Mandiri , Bank NISP , Bank Danamon , Bank Panin , Citibank , Valbury Asia Securities , Trimegah Sekuritas and Danareksa Sekuritas .
The 2007 state bonds will be issued on March 20 , June 19 and November 20 .
Publicly-listed chemical firm PT Aneka Kimia Raya AKR Corporindo Tbk. has bought 99.99 percent of PT Andahanesa Abadi's shares for Rp999.90 million or at the nominal value of Rp100,000 each .
The shares were bought from PT Arthakencana Rayatama as the shareholder of PT Andahanesa Abadi , an affiliate of PT Arthakencana Rayatama , for Rp11 billion , AKR Corporindo President Director Haryanto Adikoesoemo said in a statement to the Capital Market and Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency Bapepam-LK on Friday .
Given the share transaction , PT Andahanesa Abadi is 99.99 percent owned by AKR Corporindo and 0.01 percent by Yuwono Ongko , Haryanto said .
He said the transaction had been approved by the extraordinary meeting of the company's shareholders on May 31 .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said that the nominal value of Indonesia's debts at the end of 2007 was projected at Rp1,325 trillion , or about 35.61 percent of the gross domestic product GDP .
The minister told a hearing with the House of Representatives DPR here on Tuesday evening that the figure was 1.14 percent higher than that of 2006 which stood at Rp1,310 .
Sri Mulyani made the statement when she delivered the government's explanations to the House's Budget Committee on the revision of the law on the state budget at the House of Representatives building .
She said that the debt projection consisted of Rp546 trillion external debts and Rp779 trillion state debentures .
The increase in the nominal value of debts was due to fluctuations in the rupiah's exchange rate against foreign currencies and additinal issuance of state debentures to cover the state budget deficit , the minister said .
The minister explained that Indonesia's external debts had continued to decline from Rp612 trillion in 2005 , Rp562 trillion in 2006 to the projected Rp546 trillion in 2007 .
In contrast , she said , domestic debts through the issuance of state debentures continued to increase from Rp686 trillion in 2005 , Rp748 trillion in 2006 and to the projected Rp779 trillion in 2007 .
Indonesian rating agency Pefindo on Friday gave an idAA - rating to Astra Sedaya Finance's Rp2.2 trillion bonds issued between 2003 and 2006 , a spokesman said .
Also on Friday , the agency assigned an idAA - rating to the company's plan to issue Rp1 trillion this year , Pefindo analyst Yans Simbolon said in a statement .
The rating reflected the company's capacity to maintain its frontline position as a car leasing company with good financial performance , he said .
However , the increasingly fiercer competition among car leasing companies had slightly weakened the rating , he said .
Astra Sedaya Finance is Astra Group's leasing institution focusing on extending loans for new and second-hand car purchases .
The company is 53 percent owned by Astra Group and 47 percent by PT General Electric Services .
Publicly-listed automotive producer PT Astra International's subsidiary PT Sedaya Multi Investama has divested 50 percent of its stake in plastics and polymer raw materials manufacturer ACMG , a spokesperson said .
Thirty percent of ACMG's stake was sold to CMG Asia Life Holdings Ltd. through its subsidiary Commowealth International Holdings Pte. Ltd. Australia and 20 percent to PT Gala Arta Jaya , Astra International's corporate secretary Aminuddin told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Wednesday .
Aminuddin , however , did not mention the value of the transaction which was carried out on June 18 , 2007 .
Rupiah at the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market on Monday morning plunged to Rp9,350 against US dollar as market agents bought the US currency on the domestic money market .
The Indonesian unit dropped by 65 points to Rp9,345 / 9,350 against US dollar compared to Rp9,280 / 9,300 to the greenback at the closing session last week .
Retail Banking Director of PT Bank Mega Tbk publicly listed , Kostaman Thayib , said here the domestic money market was still under pressure due to the fluctuating global money market .
The fluctuation triggered market agents to buy US dollar as they were more confident in dollar to rupiah , he said .
According to Kostaman , the market is actually still waiting for follow-up effects of the US subprime mortgage which has pressured the Wall Street due to the crisis in the US housing credits .
A number of analysts are still difficult to predict whether or not the market fluctuation would continue after several central banks spent funds in anticipation of such a condition , he said .
Rupiah would likely continue to slump to Rp9,400 per US dollar but Bank Indonesia the central bank might enter the market to anticipate strong pressures against rupiah .
We are optimistic that the central bank will keep monitoring the movement as US dollar is weakening against Japanese yen on the global market , he said .
Actually , rupiah still has the opportunity to strengthen but worries about the fluctuation of the global money market still remain , he said , adding that rupiah was expected to be bullish in the afternoon .
Publicly-listed Bank Niaga posted an unaudited net profit of Rp590 billion in the first nine months of 2007 , up 10 percent from the same period last year .
Operating profit rose 18 percent to Rp2.35 trillion on high interest income , Bank Niaga President Director Hashemi Albakri said here Monday .
The increase in interest income was the result of low interest expenses , high fee base income and gains on foreign exchange transactions , he said .
The bank's total assets reached Rp47.32 trillion , while its total liabilities stood at Rp42.29 trillion and capital adequacy ratio CAR at 17.03 perent per Sept. 30 , 2007 .
Foreign funds totaling US $ 8.5 billion have entered Indonesia in the last five months from January through May 2007 , a Bank Indonesia official said here on Thursday .
The funds consist of US $ 3.96 billion in state bonds SUN , US $ 3.2 billion in Bank Indonesia promissory notes SBI , and US $ 1.3 billion in stocks , the director of the central bank BI's directorate of strategic planning and public relations , Budi Mulia , said .
In May foreign ownership of the SBI reached US $ 6 billion and in the SUN US $ 9.4 billion , while foreign capitalization in shares US $ 62 billion , he said .
He said the funds came into the country as a result of global liquidity excess .
They are looking for emerging markets and Indonesia is one of them , he said , adding that this had made the country's currency to appreciate .
He said the country's improving economic performance as well as strong foreign exchange reserve and the government's fiscal recurity had also contributed to the appreciation .
He said although the country's total foreign exchange reserve was high , totaling Rp50.9 trillion until June 7 , Bank Indonesia still continued monitoring the development of the rupiah appreciation .
We continue maintaining its votatility so that it remains within a controlled range , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI is helping to speed up Jambi's economic empowerment by setting up a Regional Economic Empowerment Acceleration Task Force , BI Deputy Governor Budi Rochadi said .
The team's mission was to speed up regional economic growth and empower the region's real sector as well as encourage the banking world's intermediation function , he said here Tuesday .
The task force comprises officials of the provincial administration , Bank Indonesia , and the banking sector .
It will strengthen coordination among the various relevant parties in the region to meet its output target in the near future , he said .
Similar task forces were set up previously in other regions , including in Purwokerto , Pontianak , Kupang , Bandung , Medan , Cirebon , and Manado , Budi said .
Budi said Jambi whose territory covered 54,000 square km of land and had a population of 2.75 million had great potentials in the economic sector .
Economic growth in Jambi was recorded at 6.01 percent year on year , asset development rose to Rp9.5 trillion and outstanding credit grew to Rp4.5 trillion in the first quarter of 2007 .
Third party funds increased by 2.2 percent to Rp7.7 trillion while LDR reached 58.18 percent in the first quarter of this year .
The central bank signed a MoU on plantation revitalization acceleration and micro - small - and medium-scale business credit last June 18 .
The Rp2.355 trillion-agreement would be channeled through four banks and be borrowed by 18 debtors to revitalize 65,214 ha of plantations in Jambi .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said he was optimistic that the government's inflation target this year will be achieved .
The inflation rate in 2007 is expected to grow in line with the government's estimate , namely six plus minus one , he said after attending a Friday prayer service here on Friday .
He said the inflation rate would influence the policies the government was going to adopt .
We hope the inflation and interest rates will serve as mere intermediate points to achieve our target , Burhnauddin said .
He said that in other aspects inflation would play a role in keeping the country's economy on the move .
BI is convinced the inflation rate will remain at a controllable level this year , he added .
But he also said attention should be paid to risks that could impede the economy such as food shortages .
Shortages of essential commdoties have a great influence on the inflation rate , the BI governor said .
State telecommunications operator PT Telkom Tbk. has decided to set aside 55 percent of its 2006 profit amounting to Rp6.065 trillion to pay dividends .
In its general shareholders meeting here Friday , the company agreed to pay a dividend of Rp303.205 per share .
The dividend includes an interim dividend of Rp48.45 per share paid out on December 5 last year .
The total value of interim dividends is Rp971.02 billion , the chief of the company's board of commissioners , Tanri Abeng said .
The final dividend of Rp254.755 per share would be paid out to shareholders on August 8 , he said adding the total value of final dividends reached Rp5.08 trillion .
The share price of state-owned bank BNI fell 3.5 percent at the opening trade session at the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ Monday morning .
At the secondary offering , the state bank stocks dipped from Rp2,125 per share to Rp2,050 or a fall by 3.5 percent at the opening session of the stocks trading .
It even happened to plunged to the Rp1,975 level , but rebounded again where it stayed at the Rp2,000 level .
The fall of the BNI share prices was due to the fact that it floated its shares in the wrong time , when the market was undergoing turmoil circumstances .
In the meantime , underwriters of the BNI share issuance , namely PT Bahana Securities and PT Danareksa Securitas could not do much to halt the sliding of the bank's share prices .
A number of foreign underwriters such as Marryl Linch and Kim Eng Securities , as well as Danareksa , also joined the market to release their stocks , while they , as underwriters , should have played their mediation role in protecting the fall of BNI share price .
Minister for State Enterprises Sofyan Djalil said he could understand if BNI stock price fell .
It is understandable as the market now is undergoing turmoil .
But the fundamentals of BNI remain strong and it still promises profit in the long run for investors to purchase BNI's stocks .
We are convinced its share price would regain a strong level , the minister said .
BNI President Director Sigit Pramono acknowledged BNI floated its shares at an unfavorable time .
But its share price would increase again when the market turmoil returned to normal .
Our fundamentals are good so that there is nothing to worry about , he added .
He said last week that the global market would shortly improve as global stocks had gained strength at between 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent. The Jakarta stock composite also gained strength .
PT Astra International's consolidated net profit rose by 41 percent in the first quarter this year ending on June 30 to Rp2.628 trillion in the same period last year which was recorded at Rp1.863 trillion .
The company's president director , Michael D Ruslim , said here on Tuesday the rise followed a 19 percent increase in consolidated net sales in the period to Rp31.571 trillion from Rp26.541 trillion in the same period last year .
Ruslim said automotive as well as non-automotive sales had contributed to PT Astra International sales' hike .
He said car sales jumped 32 percent to 197,320 units in the first semester this year while Astra that controls 53 percent of the national car market recorded a rise of 25 percent in its car sales reaching 104,280 units .
He said Astra which controls 44 percent of the motorcycle market had been able to sell 923,369 motorcycles in the period .
Also contributing to Astra Internatinal's net profit hike were sales of autoparts by PT Astra Otoparts that jumped 28 percent to Rp179 billion .
Profit contribution from non-automotive sales came from its subsidiaries such as Astra Credit Companies , a financing company .
Stock rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has affirmed publicly-listed Bank Niaga's idA + rating stable outlook , Pefindo said Friday .
The rating reflected the bank's strong market position , sound capitalization and good diversified businesses , the agency said in a statement .
However , the ever increasingly fiercer competition in the banking industry , particularly in the medium commercial business had reduced the supporting factors , it said .
Established in 1995 , Bank Niaga had become one of Indonesia's leading banks with good reputation in terms of corporate governance , services and innovations , it said .
Bank Niaga is the country's seventh largest bank with a total asset of close to Rp46.5 trillion per December 2007 .
The government has expressed optimism that the country's inflation in June can be kept in check so it would have a positive impact on the economy .
Admittedly , the price of cooking oil rose some time ago but the prices of other commodities appear to have remained stable , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boediono said here Thursday .
Boediono said he believed the prices of other commodities would ease the rising inflation rate due to the increase in the price of cooking oil a few weeks ago .
The prices of other commodities will certainly slow down inflation but I don't know which commodities .
I think it is not proper to talk about the matter , he said .
The Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said inflation in January stood at 1.04 percent , in February at 0.62 percent and in March at 0.24 percent. In April the country saw a deflation of 0.16 percent .
Inflation in May reached 0.10 percent , bringing the calender year inflation figure to 1.84 percent and year-on-year inflation to 6.01 percent .
Indonesia exprienced a monthly inflation of 0.80 percent in September due to an increase in the prices of foodstuffs , garments and tuition fees , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
September's inflation figure brought the calendar inflation rate to 4.41 percent and the year-on-year inflation figure to 6.95 percent , BPS Chief Rusman Heriawan said here on Monday .
We have so far concentrated on basic necessaries but it turns out that the biggest contribution to inflation was from the education sector , he said .
The rise in tuition fees contributed 0.10 percent to the total inflation figure , followed by an increases in the prices of fresh fish 0.10 percent , purebred chicken meat 0.07 percent and gold jewelry 0.04 percent , he said .
The toll tariff hike contributed 0.02 percent to the inflation rate although the toll tariff rose 22.8 percent , he said .
Despite the rise in September's inflation figure , the BPS chief said he believed the full-year inflation target of 6.0 percent for this year could be achieved , depending on volatile food prices in the two weeks ahead of the post-fasting month Lebaran festivities .
What we need to be watchful about is the prices in the first two weeks of October .
If the prices are kept in check , inflation can be controled .
Normally , the prices of goods recede again after Lebaran , he said .
With the cumulative inflation figure at 4.41 percent in September , the government still had up to 0.5 percent in each of the three remaining months to achieve the full-year inflation target of 6.0 percent , he said .
In December , there will be another inflationary pressure , namely from Christmast festivities , he said .
The World Bank has expressed support to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's decision to terminate the Consultative Group on Indonesia CGI
We welcome President Yudhoyono's announcement yesterday Wednesday that Indonesia would no longer rely on the CGI framework , World Bank Country Director for Indonesia Andrew Steer said in a press release issued on Friday .
Indonesia had skillfully built a strong economy and was no longer dependent on donor funding , Steer said .
According to him , the old CGI model in which the government presented a financing gap and donors pledged funds to fill it was no longer relevant to a strong country like Indonesia .
For the past two years , the CGI had been fully chaired and led by the Indonesian government and had moved away from a focus on financing gaps and pledging , he said .
We believe it is now appropriate that Indonesia should graduate from the CGI process , he said .
He added , however , that it was valuable for Indonesia to maintain a dialog with the international community on issues relating to access to technology , ideas , capital and trade .
The CGI which is a consortium of creditor and donor countries and institutions for Indonesia was set up in 1992 to replace the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia IGGI .
It is made up of around 30 bilateral and multilateral creditors , including the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and governments of industrialized countries like Japan , the United States and Britain .
Bank Niaga BNGA booked a net profit of Rp406 billion in the first semester of 2007 or 15 percent more than in a corresponding period in 2006 when the figure was Rp353 billion , a spokesmans said .
The higher net profit was related to an increase in business profit by 35 percent from Rp603 billion to Rp811 billion , BNGA President Director Hashemi Albakri said here Friday .
Net interest income also went up by 15 percent from Rp1.109 trillion to Rp1.280 trillion while non-interest income rose by 101 percent from Rp159 billion to Rp319 billion .
BNGA's assets increased by 7 percent to Rp43.91 trillion while its credit jumped by 11 percent to Rp34.18 trillion .
Third party funds grew by 6 percent to Rp35.65 trillion .
Return on equity RoE , however , dropped to 18.30 percent this year from 18.42 percent last year .
Hashemi also said return on asset RoA increased from 2.35 percent last year to 2.51 percent this year .
The bank's capital adequacy ratio CAR rose to 17.77 percent this year from 17.30 percent last year while its loan-to-deposit ratio LDR jumped to 95.93 percent this year from 90.23 percent last year .
Non-performing loans NPLs , Hashemi said , dropped from 4.11 percent last year to 3.23 percent this year .
PT Danareksa , a state firm engaged in the capital market industry , will issue a five-year bond worth Rp500 billion to refinance its maturing debts .
In general , the economy in the first quarter of 2007 expanded by 5.97 percent or higher than Bank Indonesia's initial projection , coupled with monetary stability , thus laying a basis for sustained growth in the future , Budi Mulia , the director of the central bank's strategic planning and public relations directorate , said following a meeting of the bank's board of governors .
On a yearly basis , the inflation fell to 6.01 percent in May from 6.29 percent a month earlier , he said .
Core inflation in May 2007 was recorded at a monthly 5.52 percent , the lowest in the past six years , he said .
The central bank noted that the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar strengthened by 2.9 percent in May to an average of Rp8.838 from Rp9,093 per dollar in April due in part to the country's improving balance of payment and interesting gains on the local unit , he said .
In addition , the relatively high foreign exchange reserves coupled with the government's fiscal security and access to global liquidity had contributed to the rupiah's appreciation , he said .
On a yearly basis , bank loans meanwhile grew by 16.45 percent in April 2007 with the loan-to-deposit ratio LDR reaching a six-year record high of 65.8 percent , he said .
Compared to the previous month , bank loans in April expanded by Rp12.4 trillion with the banks' total assets growing by 16.8 percent to Rp246.2 trillion on a yearly basis , he said .
Meanwhile , the ratio of non-performing loans to outstanding loans in April was about the same as the previous month , he said .
He said the banking industry also saw a Rp176.6 trillion increase in the amount of third party funds to Rp1,299.8 trillion in April 2007 compared to the same period last year .
Overall , net income interest NII rose to Rp7.8 trillion in April from Rp7.7 trillion a month earlier , while capital adequacy ratio CAR slightly went up to 20.2 percent to 20.7 percent , he said .
Judging by the current economic conditions , he said , the economy in 2008 would grow at a faster pace than this year due in part to increasingly conducive investment climate and low financing cost and low cost of capital goods imports in 2007 .
The Indonesian government is set to issue short-term bonds at an indicative value of Rp2 trillion on June 26 , a Finance Ministry spokesman said .
The series SPN20088052801 bonds would be sold under an auction system organized by Bank Indonesia the central bank , Samsuar Said said in a statement issued on Wednesday .
Proceeds from the bond issuance would meet part of the state budget financing target for 2007 and would also establish a benchmark for 2008 , he said .
The bonds will be sold in an open auction using a multiple price method .
Bidders are only allowed to place competitive bids and will pay according to the yield applied for in their bids .
Indonesian businessmen grouped in the Indonesia-China Business Council ICBC met with the local government of Yunnan , China , to discuss efforts to increase trade between the two countries .
We will try to increase trade relations first .
The next step we will take is to increase investment in both countries , ICBC chairman Alim Markus said here on Wednesday .
Adhi Oman LLC , a subsidiary to PT Adhi Karya ADHI , has been awarded a work contract worth US $ 104 million in Oman , Corporate Secretary of the company , Kurnadi Gularso said here on Thursday .
In a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Thursday , Gularso said that Adhi Oman LLC will sign a work contract worth US $ 104 million next June 6 .
He said that the name of the project his company would be dealing with in Oman was Tilal Complext at Al Khuawair with a two-year working period , It will commence in June 2007 and last until June 2009 , he said .
Bank Central Asia BCA president Jahja Setiaatmadja said here on Saturday the bank's funds in SBI Bank Indonesia Certificate promissory notes now totalled Rp21 trillion , down 27.6 percent from March .
The bank's funds in the SBI in March reached Rp29 trillion , he said .
According to him , there were various factors that had made BCA funds in the SBI dropped , referring to among ohers more attractive investment in the treasure bond , increasing investment in corporate bonds and increasing distribution of public housing KPR and motor vehicle loans KKB .
KPR and KKB financing reaches Rp500 billion a month at present and our target for the months to come is around Rp2 trillion to Rp3 trillion , he said .
Jahja said BCA now has Rp50 trillion for government bonds consisting of Rp27 trillion for the bond with a floating rate and Rp23 trillion for that with a fixed rate .
He said the bank expected to extend Rp10 trillion in credits , supported by funds from third parties such as a savings account .
We have core funds from savings and clearing accounts and 50 percent of them could be used for a long-term financing , he said , adding the funds were cheap funds .
The interest rate for a savings account is four percent .
In its history savings account the rate has never reached eight percent .
The rate for the clearing account is two percent and in its history it has never reached seven percent , he said .
Some 3,267 bankers took part in a Risk Management Certificate examination held by the Risk Management Certificate Agency BSMR here to meet the central bank's regulation .
The examination is part of efforts to meet the Bank Indonesia regulation on banking management according to Bank Indonesia Regulations PBI , BSMR president director Gandung T Sulistyo said at a press conference here on Saturday .
According to the PBI all bank executives will have to have a compentency certificate on risk management by 2010 .
Those who do not meet the requirement will be given a sanction , he said .
The chairperson of the Risk Management Certification Council , Gayatri Rawit Anggraeni said the move was taken to standardize the competency of bankers as finance managers .
Those who have already had the certificate from abroad are required to report it , she said .
However , she said , they would not automatically pass certification examination because they are also required to know about conditions and regulations in the country .
Indonesia has its own conditions and regulations that may be different from those in other countries .
BSMR cooperates with Bank Indonesia and the Global Association of Risk Professionals , a professional association of risk management from New York , the USA .
Publicly-listed shipping company PT Berlian Laju Tanker BLTA has signed a contract for the purchase of two tankers expected to be delivered in June and August , a spokesperson said .
The tankers comprised IMO II which had a capacity of 7,500 DWT and Double Hull which had a capacity of 150,000 DWT , BLTA director Kevin Wong told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Monday .
The company will also sign a contract for the purchase of another oil tanker in the near future , he said .
Only recently , BLTA has received three tankers , namely MT Gas Papua on January 31 , MT Gas Bali on May 28 and MT Purwati on February 28 .
MT Gas Papua and MT Gas Bali which each has a capacity of 5,000 CBM were built in Shitanoe Shipbuilding Co. Ltd in Japan , while MT Purwati which is a stainless steel chemical tanker IMO II and has a capacity of 19,990 DWT was made in Shin Kurushima Dockyard Co. Ltd , Japan .
The purchase of the three tankers cost about US $ 170 million .
The addition of the three tankers increase the capacity of the company's tanker fleet by 22.2 percent , Wong said .
The purchase of the three tankers has increased the company's fleet to 65 , consisting of 38 chemical tankers , 18 oil tankers , eight gas tankers and one FSO tanker with a combined capacity of 1.85 million DWT .
Japan aims to secure its position as a global financial center so as to sustain its economic growth despite falling population , and will implement various reforms to that end , a senior financial official said Thursday .
Kotaro Tamura , parliamentary secretary for financial services at the Cabinet Office , told a Japan-Europe symposium in Tokyo , In order to sustain the size and dynamism of the economy , we have to increase productivity per person .
We are good at manufacturing , but we have some problems with the productivity in the service sector , especially financial sector , he said .
We need to increase our productivity in the financial sector .
Otherwise , our economy will shrink .
Tamura , who attended the event in place of Financial Services Minister Yuji Yamamoto , said Japan's position as a major financial center has been threatened by its Asian rivals in close time zones , such as bourses in Shanghai , Singapore , Hong Kong and Mumbai .
They are catching up with us at a very fast speed , he said .
The parliamentary secretary also said that creating more efficient capital and bond markets in Japan will help improve the fiscal health of the state , which is saddled with debts equivalent to about 160 percent of the country's gross domestic product .
The government has made massive investments in those markets .
As for concrete financial reform measures , Tamura said the government will urge the Tokyo Stock Exchange to expand the scope of transaction items , extend its trading hours and step up cooperation with overseas bourses .
He also said the Financial Services Agency will try to encourage innovations in the financial sector and that the government will seek to boost financial education and reform taxation systems to accelerate a shift in Japanese household financial assets from deposits to investment .
European Commissioner for Internal Market and Financial Services Charlie McCreevy supported the idea of reinvigorating Tokyo's financial status , saying at the symposium , Japan , with its deep pools of capital , a top-notch industry as well as highly qualified human resources , has all the ingredients to succeed .
McCreevy said the European Union has implemented financial services integration measures since 1999 and that they bore fruit as shown by the creation of pan-European banks and the lowered financing costs following the convergence of interest rates in many markets .
The commissioner said that as a next step the European authorities must monitor closely newer products and financial trends , such as hedge funds and private equity .
Publicly-listed real estate developer PT Duta Pertiwi Tbk plans to issue its fifth bonds worth Rp400 billion to refinance debts and strengthen working capital .
The fixed-rate bonds will mature in five years , the company said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Friday , The company said the bonds will carry a coupon of 12.375-13.125 percent payable once every three months .
The bonds have an idBBB stable outlook rating from local rating agency PT Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo .
The bonds will go on sales on June 27-29 and will be traded in the Surabaya Stock Exchange starting on July 5 .
Indonesian rating company PT Pefindo in its annual assessment has raised the rating of PT Bank Buana from idA to idA + , the bank's president director Pardi Kendy said in his report to the Capital Market Execuring Baord Bapepam here on Monday .
Kendy said that PT Pefindo also raised the rating of Bank Buana's Subordination I Bonds for 2004 which amounted to Rp300 billion from idA - to idA .
He said that the rating was raised based on data and information provided by Bank Buana and on its unaudited financial reports per June 30 , 2006 , which are valid until December 1 , 2007 .
The banks are ready to disburse Rp65.39 percent of their total funds amounting to Rp418.75 trillion in state debentures SUN to the real sector provided that the government and Bank Indonesia BI are ready to facilitate the real sector's development , a banker said here on Monday .
The banks are ready to divert their SUN funds into credits owing to the fact that banks are surplus with liquidity , But it should be balanced with preparations by the government and the central bank BI , Retail Banking Director of Bank Mega , Kostaman Thayib
The minister of finance said earlier that the real sector was expected to grow and banks were , thus , expected to support it through their intermendiary roles , In this case , banks should release their SUN funds and channel them in the form of credits .
Kostaman said 65.39 percent of the banks' total SUN funds of Rp418.75 trillion were a large amount to be diverted into credits .
He said that the flow of funds to the real sector had been limited so that provision of credits to the production sector needed to be boosted .
Kostaman said that banks nowadays was surplus in liquidity so that they investment their funds in the BI certificates .
This caused the loan to deposit ratio of banks to reach 50 percent .
Basically we are ready to channel the SUN funds provided that the government also adopts various policies which could boost the economic growth , he added .
He said that credits would carry an interest rate of between 14 and 16 percent , which were higher than those of the SUN .
Therefore , the banking sector had big interest to divert their SUN funds in credits to the production sector .
But the government should prepare conducive investment climate , taxation , labour and security systems as well legal certainty .
We have to be catious in channeling credits to customers because otherwise it is feard the credits would turn to be problematic , he added .
Gas and oil company PT Medco Energi International MEDC through its subsidiary Medco Sarana Balaraja MSB has taken over 100 percent of shares of PT Usaha Kita Makmur Bersama UKMB which owns fuel mixing and storing depots in Tanjung Priok , north of here .
Development Director of Medco Energi , Rashid I. Mangukusumo in a report to the Capital Market Supervisory Board Bapepam here on Monday said the acquisition of 100 percent of the UKMB shares was done through the signing of a sale-purchase agreement between MSB and old shareholders who were individual share owners .
He said the transaction was immaterial in nature because it did not exceed 10 percent of the consolidated corporate income and 20 percent of the corporate equity based on the audited financial report which ended in December 31 , 2005 .
The transaction neither contained conflict of interest because UKMB's old shareholders had no links with Medco Energi or MSB , he added .
The Indonesian Stock Rating company PT Pefindo has raised Bank Buana Indonesia firm BBIA's rating from idA to idA + and its subordinated I / 2003 bond rating worth Rp300 billion US $ 30 million from idA - to idA .
The raising of the BBI's rating reflected its strong business position following the presence of UOB as a major shareholder of BBIA , Pefindo said in a statement made available to ANTARA here Tuesday .
The newly raised rating also showed the bank's strong capital base and better profitability , it said .
Pefindo , however , reported the rating was weakened by decrease in asset quality last year .
It said the bank's total assets reached Rp17.4 trillion in the first semester of 2006 , accounting for about 1.2 percent of the total banking industry's assets .
BBIA was known as one of the Indonesian conservative banks which have a strong franchise in the trade sector .
BBIA was set up in 1956 based on a merger of the Bandung-based Bank Pembinaan Nasional , the Semarang-based Bank Kesejahteraan Masyarakat and the Jakarta-based Bank Aman Makmur .
As of June 30 , BBIA's shares were 61.13 percent controlled by UOB Int. Inv. Private Ltd , 26.75 percent by Sari Dasa Karsa firm , 0.45 percent by Eddy Muljanto , 0.16 percent by Karman Tandau , and 11 percent by public .
Up to September 2006 , BBIA had 5,514 staff members , 202 offices in 29 main cities in Indonesia .
State-owned telecommunication company PT Telkom on January 16 bought back 500,000 shares at different stock exchanges , including the New York Stock Exchange NYSE , bringing the total number of shares it has reacquired up till now to 120,376,500 , a company spokesman said .
The number of shares the company had bought back so far was still far below the maximum number it was permitted to recover , namely 1.008 billion , Harsya Denny Suryo , PT Telkom's vice president for investor relations and corporate secretary , told the Capital Market Supervisory Agency - Financial Institutions Bapepam - LK here Friday .
The transaction was carried out by PT Danareksa securities at a price of Rp9,920 US $ 0.9 per share , With the latest purchase , the number of shares PT Telkom could still buy back now was 887,628,464 .
A PT Telkom extraordinary shareholders' meeting that was held on December 21 , 2005 and Bapepam regulations had stipulated that PT Telkom could make the buybacks over a period of 18 months after the extraordinary shareholders' meeting which had agreed that the buyback scheme could last until June 2007 .
The banking sector has begun lowering interest on both rupiah-and dollar-denominated deposits following the recent decision of Bank Indonesia the central bank and the Deposit Insurance Agency LPS to cut interest rates to 9.5 percent , an official said .
The decrease in lending interest was important for the business world and could encourage higher national economic growth , Hagabank Group financial division head Jenny Santosa said here Friday .
She added , however , that the fast national economic growth depended not only on lower interest on deposits and the amount of bank credits extended but also on the government's efforts to boost the real sector's growth .
The banking sector had predicted that the growth of credit expansion in 2007 might exceed the Bank Indonesia-set target of 18 percent , she said .
This year is a good momentum for the banking sector to channel as much credits as possible after the government has set the economic growth target of 6.3 percent for this year , she said .
She suggested that the government invest its funds in the productive sector so that the state budget would contribute to the economic development .
Jenny predicted that the lending interest would likely decrease from 14-15 percent to 12-13 percent provided that the BI rate dropped to 7-8 percent .
Indonesia's inflation in January 2007 slightly fell to 1.04 percent from 1.21 percent a month earlier , bringing a year-on-year inflation to 6.26 percent , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
All the 45 cities surveyed saw inflation with the highest inflation of 3.90 percent recorded in Ternate and the lowest inflation of 0.10 percent in Ambon .
The increase in the prices of staples pushed up the January 2007 inflation , contributing 2.68 percent to it , BPS chief Rusman Heriawan said on Thursday .
He said the increase in the prices of foods , beverages , cigarettes and tobacco contributed 0.87 percent to the inflation rate ; housing , drinking water , electricity , gas and fuel 0.71 percent ; health services 0.54 percent ; education , recreation and sports 0.10 percent , and transportation , communications and financial services 0.10 percent .
The January 2007 inflation figure was quite moderate compared to the same months in the past two years , he said .
The country's inflation rate in January 2005 and January 2006 was 1.43 percent and 1.36 percent respectively .
The Capital Market Supervisory Board - Financial Institutions Bapepam-LK of the Finance Ministry said state-owned gas company PT. Perusahaan Gas Nasional PGN proves to have violated existing rules on public information transparency .
In a written statement released on Thursday , Bapepam-LK said through an investigation it had obtained enough evidence to prove that PT PGN had violated rule No X.K.1 on the obligation of companies to maintain openness in informing the public about their operations .
It said Bapepam had already reviewed the relevant documents which it had collected from many parties .
In addition , Bapepam-LK had also questioned some directors of the company , the company's public accountant , project coordinator and the manager of the SSWJ South Sumatra-West Java pipeline transmission project .
Bapepam-LK had initiated a deeper probe into the case following indications that there was a violation of regulation in capital market in addition to violation of regulation No. X.K.1 including an investigation into transactions on PT. PGN shares conducted by a certain stock company .
PGN's shares with PGAS code during trading at the Jakarta stock exchange BEJ on January 12 drastically went down .
The drop in the price of PGN shares was allegedly triggered by rumors about a financial in PT PGN and the deferred realization of its gas pipeline project from South Sumatra to West Java SSWJ .
Because of the two rumors , the price of PGN shares dropped by 23.3 percent to Rp7.400 from Rp9,650 per share at the opening session on Friday at auto reject halting position .
Disappointment of investors which caused the price of PGAS shares to decline depressed the prices of other shares making the composite shares price index IHSG to close lower by 25.80 points or 1.51 percent to 1,678.044 .
In the meantime , the LQ45 index dropped 5.411 points or 1.48 percent to a position of 361.396 .
If there was no halting system at the Jakarta Stock Exchange , PGN's shares would possibly have continued to go down .
The World Bank has agreed to extend a US $ 123 million loan to Indonesia to enhance its farmers' capacity through an Agricultural Technology and Information project that will help over 400,000 farmer families to increase their productivity and income in the next five years , the bank said .
According to the statement , some $ 41 million of the funds will go to a program to empower farmers through a farmers group capacity development scheme and to an agriculture-based grant program .
The programs , it said , will hopefully help the Indonesian agricultural sector to grow by 3.9 percent and develop agricultural diversification so that in the long run the poverty rate will decrease .
The World Bank's country director for Indonesia , Andrew Steer , meanwhile , said revitalizing agricultural productivity may become the main effort to lower the poverty rate and strengthen the agricultural community .
Meanwhile , the Indonesian Agriculture Ministry's Human Resources Development Agency head Ato Suprapto expressed hope that the World Bank loan would increase the number of Agricultural Information Posts BPP to 1,000-1,200 in sub districts across the country .
Nowadays , he said , Indonesia had 5,815 BPPs although some of them had no office buildings and were sharing buildings with other agencies .
Therefore , the loan would also be used to build BPPs in 71 districts in 18 provinces , Ato said .
The Financial and Development Supervisory Agency BPKP found deviations in financial management in Papua province , which might have caused Rp 51.86 billion in losses to the state and the local administration .
Head of the Papua BPKP Bambang Setiawan said here on Wednesday that the investigative audit was conducted at the request of investigators .
For the time being , there would be no public disclosure on the illegal activities of the perpetrators because police investigations are still underway , he said after attending a ceremony on the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Papua provincial administration and the BPKP .
But following investigations , certain circles felt they have caused the state a loss , and returned Rp781 million in state finances , he said .
In the meantime , BPKP chief Didi Widayadi said that if the case which had caused losses to the state has solid evidence , the culprits will be brought to justice .
Papua Governor Barnabas Suebu after receiving information and data from the BPKP , said the case must be followed up immediately .
Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose US $ 161 million to $ 43.266 billion in the week ending on Jan 31 from $ 43.105 billion in the week ending on Jan 25 , Bank Indonesia said .
The country's foreign exchange reserves in 2007 are projected to reach $ 47 billion on the back of a surplus in current account transactions estimated at $ 6 billion to $ 8 billion , the central bank said in its official website on Thursday .
The central government has allocated deconcentration fund amounting to Rp18.3 trillion for transportation development sector across the country in 2007 , a minister has said .
Allocating the deconstration fund will hopefully narrow inter-region gap in infrastructure development , Coordinating Minister for Economy Boediono said in a document for the Regional Representatives Council DPD made available here Thursday .
According to the document , the government has also allocated a deconcentration fund of Rp4.6 trillion for irrigation sector , Rp1.99 trillion for flood management program , and Rp1.2 trillion for drinking water and wastes management projects .
The deconcentration fund is the central government's money which is handed to the provincial administration for various development programs .
Aside from the deconcentration fund , State Budget 2007 has allotted fund amounting to Rp190 billion for border area development , Rp464 billion for strategic and growing zone development , Rp1.02 trillion for less-developed region development , and Rp847 billion for rural infrastructure and means development .
The document stated that other instrument which will be used to narrow inter-region gap is Public Allocation Fund DAU .
Quoting a latest study on DAU impact on regional disparity , Boediono said DAU 2006 brought better impact than previous DAU .
However , he said , there is still a room to improve DAU formula that in the long run it is more capable of further narrowing inter-region development gap .
Boediono was also quoted as saying that the government provided 434 districts and towns with Special Allocation Fund DAK totaling Rp17 trillion which can be used to improve various infrastructures and means .
Some Rp5 trillion of the fund will be used to make roads and irrigation as well as to set up clean water facilities , Boediono was quoted as saying .
The Asian Development Bank ADB will fund a study on the quality of water in the Tarum Barat Canal which is meeting 80 percent of Jakarta's clean-water needs , a statement said .
In its official website on Friday , the ADB said the canal was in bad condition and the process of siphoning water from the canal for supply to Jakarta had been polluted over the past few years .
It said people living along the canal's banks and rivers flowing into the canal had polluted the canal water .
According to the dispatch , the polluted condition of the water had increased the cost of purifying the water before it was distributed to consumers in Jakarta .
The study would be carried out over a period of 12 months in cooperation with clean water service provider Perum Jasa Tirta PJT 2 and a South Korean water firm co-sponsoring the study , it said .
Meanwhile , PJT 2 director Djendam Gurusinga said a study on the Citarum river had shown that most pollutants in the Citarum river came from industrial wastes and garbage generated by Bandung residents .
The results of the study on the Citarum river would be used as reference in efforts to improve the quality of the water in the Tarum Barat Canal and in the long term , the quality of water in some other rivers in the country , he said .
Based on a study on about 20 rivers in the country , the ADB would make recommendations on how to improve the water quality , it said adding the efforts to improve water quality was part of ADB assistance to help the Indonesian government prepare a 15-year investment program and to promote an integrated water resources management system for the Citarum river flow .
The integrated Citarum water resources management program would begin late this year with the collaboration of the central government , the West Java administration , local people , the industrial sector and community organizations .
A series of workshops held in 2006 formulated a vision that the government and local people should work together to create water catchment areas as well as clean and productive rivers that can give sustainable benefit to the people living along the Citarum river .
The workshops also produced a roadmap of a program focused on seven issues , namely institution of and planning for integrated water resources management , water resources development and management , water distribution , environmental protection , disaster management , people's empowerment and information management .
Last year , the ADB announced that it would raise water investment in Asia to US $ 2 billion per year to meet high demand for water in the region .
Sharia banks in Indonesia planned to raise in their credits to small and medium enterprises this year in view of the potential market of SMEs and increasing Bank Indonesia BI rate , an official said .
Sharia banks are predicted to increase their credits by 30 percent this year compared to last year's , Sharia Mandiri Bank BSM director Yuslam Fauzi said here Friday .
The recent drop in BI rate by 25 base points to 9.25 percent will likely lower sharia bank credit interest rates and encourage debtors to obtain fresh credits , he said .
Considering that the national economy has been growing steadily , we are optimistic that demand of SMEs for credits will also increase , he said .
Yuslam said , BSM will be more aggressive in providing SMEs with credits with a view to turning the banks into non-corporate sharia banks .
BSM had channeled Rp7.7 trillion to SMEs in 2006 and may allocate Rp10 trillion in 2007 .
In 2006 third-party funds in BSM amounted to Rp8.219 trillion , assets Rp9.612 trillion and fundings Rp7.401 trillion .
He also said BSM had opened three branches in Kalimantan , bringing the total number of BSM offices across the country to 225 .
The Indonesian economy grew by 5.5 percent last year , down by 0.1 percent from a year earlier due to lower-than-expected investment , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said on Friday .
Overall , investment in 2006 was far lower than in previous years .
Investment which was originally expected to stimulate economic growth in 2006 remained stagnant , he said .
Investment rose to Rp800.1 trillion in 2006 from Rp657.6 trillion the year before , contributing only 0.7 percent of the 2006 economic growth , he said .
Investment in the construction sector rose by 8.9 percent , while investment in the machinery and equipment sector and investment in transport means fell by 25 percent and 42 percent respectively , he said .
Overall , the 2006 economic growth was driven by exports 4.1 percent , followed by household consumption 1.9 percent , government consumption , and investment growth 0.7 percent .
Meanwhile , imports grew 2.8 percent to Rp870.1 trillion in 2006 from Rp816.4 trillion in 2005 , he said .
It is the first time for components other than household consumption to make the biggest contribution to economic growth , he said .
He said a spate of natural disasters such as earthquakes engulfing Yogyakarta and flash floods hitting South Sulawesi this year were partly to blame for the lower-than-projected economic growth in 2006 .
But the main engine of 2006 economic growth was the processing industry which contributed 1.3 percent to economic growth. Last year , the processing industry's growth registered a 4.6 percent increase from the figure a year earlier , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI or the central bank predicted that national economy would grow by six percent in 2007 or higher than the realization of economic growth which was recorded at 5.5 percent in 2006 .
Economic growth in 2007 will likely to reach 5.7 to 6.3 percent with a median of 6 percent , Bank Indonesia governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said here Tuesday .
The predicted highest economic growth of 6.3 percent can be reached so long as the government is capable of implementing such structural agendas as investment climate improvement and law enforcement , he said .
He also said export flow will reach higher level this year compared to that of last year while import value will also high thanks to activity of investment in the second semester of this year .
Import will rise so that the surplus of balance of payment will drop yet it is still able to keep rupiah exchange rate stability , he said .
The year 2007 , he said , is the momentum to boost national economy as the country had already reached macro-economic stability in 2006 .
So don't forsake this momentum as it is very dear .
We should utilize available macro-economic stability to bolster economic activity in 2007 , he said .
Burhanuddin , however , said there are two things that may affect efforts to improve economic growth namely unpredictable world fuel oil price and spiraling rice price .
We have been making a research and study on agricultural commodity development notably rice .
Last year we predicted that skyrocketing rice price could bother our efforts to keep inflation rate from going further , he said .
Data of the central bank showed that Indonesia successfully reached macro-economic stability in 2006 despite a heavy economic pressure in 2005 .
Inflation rate which was recorded high in early 2006 slowly dropped to 6.6 percent late last year while the rupiah ? s exchange rate has continued to become stable with low volatility , it said .
Publicly-listed information technology company PT Astra Graphia Tbk announced on Tuesday its net profit rose 54.1 percent to Rp55.56 billion in 2006 from Rp36.06 billion a year earlier on an increase in operational income and difference of the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar .
Operational income rose 13.48 percent to Rp619.03 billion in 2006 from Rp545.46 billion the year before , according to the company's financial statement submitted to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
The company earned Rp3.01 billion from the difference of the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar last year , up from minus Rp3.04 billion a year earlier .
The 2006 profit raised earning per share to Rp41.20 from Rp26.74 .
National banking sector is planning for a credit growth of 22 percent in 2007 or higher than the realization of banking credit growth of 14.1 percent in 2006 , an official said .
Report on the bank credit growth has already been conveyed to Bank Indonesia .
The report shows that the national bank credit plan minus BPD will grow by 22 percent , central bank deputy governor Mulyaman D Hadad said here Tuesday .
National bank credit grew by 14 percent last year .
So , if it can raise 18 percent this year it will be good enough let alone if it reaches 22 percent , it will be very encouraging , he said .
The bank credit scheme is a guide for the central bank to observation of banks' efforts to realize the plan , he said .
Half of the bank credit growth of 22 percent will be allotted to micro small medium enterprises UMKM sector .
Bank credit growth was recorded at 14.1 percent or Rp102.8 trillion in 2006 , lower than 22.7 percent or Rp135.1 trillion in 2005 .
Mulyaman also said there are 14 banks which are interested in making a consolidation through a merger , acquisition or capital enlargement in order to reach a target for minimal capital value of Rp80 billion late 2007 .
PT Energi Mega Persada , Indonesia's second biggest oil company , is negotiating with several investors for possible sales of part of its stake in the Kangean gas block , East Java , its director said .
The company is in the process of negotiating with several strategic investors who have shown interest in cooperating with the company to develop the block , Norman Harahap told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Wednesday .
He was responding to a media report that the company is on the verge of selling 50 percent of its stake in the block .
The negotiations are underway and no agreement has been reached , he said .
Some bankers on Friday hailed the central bank's decision to ease credit rules to increase banks' intermediary role to boost the sluggish real sector .
The easing of credit rules is an opportunity for bankers to increase their intermediary role which currently falls short of expectations , PT Panin Bank Deputy Vice President Roosniati Salihin said on Friday .
Actually , banks were determined to distribute more banking credits this year than last year but many debtors refrained from making new bank loans , she said .
Banks prefered channeling credits to investing their funds in Bank Indonesia short-term promissory notes SBI because interest on banking credits was more profitable , she said .
She said many banks invested their funds in SBI which carries an interest rate of 9 percent merely to reduce cost risks .
Lending interest now ranges from 13 to 14 percent .
The high lending rate was one of the main factors discouraging consumers to apply for new credits and that banks must soon lower it , she said .
The government will likely raise the target of its global bond issuance to cover its extra budget deficit which may reach 1.5 percent of the gross national product GNPin 2007 , State Minister for National Development Planning / National Development Planning Agency chairman Paskah Suzetta said .
The government may increase the number of its global and local bonds and try to secure more soft loans or international development assistance this year , he said here Wednesday .
I have told the public and private partners of the World Bank to provide Indonesia with soft loans or international development assistance to cover the deficit which may reach less than 2 percent this year , he said .
Paskah said the government will determine an extra deficit figure and a refinancing composition scheme in the revised 2007 State Budget .
In the 2007 State Budget , the government has projected a net income of Rp40.6 trillion and gross income of Rp66.8 trillion from the bond issuance .
The government has issued global bonds totalLing US $ 1.5 billion to cover the 0.7 percent or Rp26.1 trillion worth of gross national product in 2007 .
The World Bank has supported the policy of Indonesia's central bank Bank Indonesia BI to maintain BI's interest rate at the level of 9.00 percent .
Senior Economist of the World Bank in Indonesia William Wallace here Thursday said that the move of maintaining the BI rate was in accordance with the main task of the central bank to suppress the country's inflation rate and protect the exchange rate .
He believed that it would be easy for Bank Indonesia to lower the rate further , but the most important task of BI was to keep the inflation rate down because it could affect the interest rate , currency exchange rate and other variables .
According to William Wallace , the current level was quite convenient given the other aspects of BI's main tasks .
He said that he would be careful in giving statement if he were BI .
If the lowering of the interest rate triggered an increase of money in circulation , the lowering trend could be slowed down , However , there was still room for further lowering , he said .
The Bank of Indonesia BI in its Governor Board Meeting RDG here on Thursday decided to maintain the level of the interest rate at 9.00 percent , which represented BI ? s first decision of such a move since May 2006 .
PT Panin Bank is planning to issue senior bonds worth Rp1.5 trillion in May to strengten capital and expand lending .
The bonds , divided into series A with a maturity of three years , series B five years and series C seven years , would go on sale between May 15 and 21 , the bank's treasury director , Johnny Wiraatmadja , said on Thursday .
The series A bonds would carry an indicative interest of 9.25 percent to 9.75 percent , series B bonds 10.25 percent to 10.75 percent and series C bonds 10.50 percent to 11 percent , he said .
Acting as bond issue underwriters would be Deuthsche Securities Indonesia , Indo Premier Securities and Evergreen Capital with PT Bank Mandiri as a trustee agent , he said .
The bank was planning to channel 60 percent of its lending to the retail sector and open more than 50 branches in 2007 , he said .
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Boediono said here on Monday the government would possibly increase its foreign debt this year to cover the national budget deficit which was predicted to surpass the target .
Yes , probably because the deficit is likely to increase this year and it has to be covered , he said , adding he had not yet seen budget deficit figures in detail .
Asked what the government had discussed with the World Bank at a meeting in Washington , the minister said it was not him but the state minister for national development planning who had attended the meeting .
I have to wait for him to know about it because I did not attend the meeting , he said .
The finance minister stated earlier there was a possibility the government would seek a foreign loan through a bilateral or multilateral scheme to cover the 2007 budget deficit estimated to reach 1.5 to 1.8 percent or Rp56.9 to Rp68.3 trillion so long as the risk involved equaled those in other debt instruments .
So it is possible for us to seek a foreign loan if the deficit rises sharply .
We will seek the loan from reptable sources at home or abroad through bilateral or multilateral schemes so long as its terms are comparable to those set by other instruments , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said .
The deficit of 1.1 percent or Rp40.6 trillion in the 2007 national budger would be covered through the issuance of treasury bonds SUN worth Rp66.7 trillion gross and Rp40.6 trillion net .
Contributions from dividends meanwhile were expected to reach Rp14.462 trillion , privatization Rp2 trillion and sale of assets held by the Assets Managememt Company PPA Rp1.5 trillion .
Most 70 percent of the budget for poverty eradication management would come from foreign loans , Boediono said .
Next year , we will possibly raise the allocation of funds which mostly may come from our own sources .
It is a combination , he said .
He said there had been improvements in the implementation of poverty eradication programs that had been carried out since 1999 so that they had been treated as government programs .
The World Bank has been implementing a variety of poverty eradication programs in sub districts since 1999 and we have improved them he said .
The undisbursed bank credits in Central Java by February 2007 reached Rp7.1 trillion , accounting for 13.71 percent of the total bank credits of Rp52.1 trillion .
Director of Semarang's Bank Indonesia BI office Amril Arief said here on Monday that the undisbursed loans reflected a 14.64 increase compared to the undisbursed Rp6.2 trillion in December 2006 .
This unfavorable situation is an indication that the real sector in starting with their business operations has not done enough , in spite of the banking financial support .
This is quite deplorable , he said .
He also revealed that the total bank assets in February 2007 increased by 17 percent to Rp83.7 trillion , third-party funds by 15.22 percent to Rp67.1 trillion , and credits by 13.04 percent to Rp52.1 trillion .
Dengan pertumbuhan kredit yang lebih rendah dari pertumbuhan DPK , membuat loans to deposit ratio LDR turun dari 79,13 persen menjadi 77,64 persen , sedangkan rasio nonperforming loans NPLs naik dari 4,92 persen menjadi 6,06 persen .
He said that consumer credits increased by 16.41 percent to Rp17.9 trillion , work capital by 12.02 percent to Rp30 trillion , but investment credits by only 5.45 percent to Rp4.2 trillion .
Nevertheless , he added , work capital credits are still the biggest contributor to the total credits , with 57.56 percent , consumer credits 34.47 percent , and investment credits 7.96 percent .
Under these circumstances , the central bank BI called on the banks to increase their credits to support the national economic growth and at the same time to apply the principle of prudential banking properly , enabling them to better manage their credit risks , he said .
New York stocks ended with strong gains on Monday , propelled by merger and acquisition reports and firm retail sales for March , which generated optimism about the U.S. economic outlook .
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index gained 26.39 points , or 1.06 percent , to 2,518.33 .
Stronger-than-expected earnings from Citigroup Inc. , combined with M & A reports , sent buying exceeding selling in morning trading , dealers said .
The broad-based rise also stemmed from firm U.S. retail sales for March , Commerce Department data showed retail sales growing a stronger-than-expected 0.7 percent in March .
PT Semen Gresik , Indonesia's largest cement maker , saw a 11.6 percent rise in its sales in the first quarter of 2007 to 3.93 million tons on higher demand for its product on the export market .
First-quarter domestic sales rose 5.7 percent to 3.52 million tons from the same period a year earlier , while exports more than doubled to 411,396 tons from 195,000 tons , the company said in a statement on Tuesday .
In March alone , exports climbed 625 percent to 168,430 tons , while domestic sales fell 2.4 percent to 1.21 million tons from the same period last year .
Last year PT Semen Gresik posted a net profit of Rp1.29 trillion , up 29 percent from a year earlier , helped by an increase in sales to Rp8.73 trillion from 7.53 trillion .
The company held 46.9 percent share of the domestic cement market in 2006 , compared with 45.4 percent the year before .
Publicly-listed shipping company PT Berlian Laju Tanker BLTA intends to expand its fleet by purchasing new or used ships up to a total value of US $ 500 million in one year's time after an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to be held next May 24 , the company said in a statement .
The program to expand BLTA's fleet would be carried out either by PT Berlian Laju Tanker company itself or by its subsidiary which is fully or half owned by the company , BLTA said in a statement made available here Wednesday .
The planned ship purchases would be financed through an internal funding scheme , loans as well as a right issue to sell 5 percent or 207.88 million new shares out of the total number of shares already issued .
The statement said the right issue would be carried out through a private placement mechanism for one or more new investors .
BLTA's financial report showed PT Berlian Laju Tanker posted a net profit of Rp1.21 trillion in 2006 , up from Rp645.19 billion in the previous year .
The increase in net profit was attributed to rising net sales and other earnings , it said .
BLTA's net sales reached a total value of Rp3,07 trillion in 2006 , up from Rp2.62 trillion in 2005 .
Business profit stood at Rp 946.39 billion in 2006 or up slightly from Rp945.82 billion in 2005 .
The rupiah at the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market strenghtened by five points in the afternoon to Rp9,075 / 9,080 from Rp9,080 / 9,085 against the US dollar on the previous day after market agents released the US greenback and bought the Indonesian unit .
The market agents who released rupiah in the morning session released US dollars and bought the Indonesian currency before the closing session in the afternoon , PT Bank Mega's Retail Banking Director Kostaman Thayib said here Friday .
However , the market agents bought only a small amount of rupiah so that the increase in the rate of the Indonesian currency was also relatively small , he said .
He added that the increase was also supported by Bank Indonesia the central bank which prevented rupiah from passing the psychological limit of Rp9,100 per US dollar .
The central bank wanted rupiah to stay at a rate between Rp9,050 and Rp9,075 per US dollar , he said , adding that the market agents bought rupiah because they saw the positive issue as the US dollar strenghthened against Japanese yen .
The US dollar strengthened because investors were waiting for data on the US economic growth which would be reported by the US central bank , he said .
He noted that the yen weakened because the Japanese central bank decided not to raise its interest rate in the near future prompting foreign agents to release the Japanese unit .
The Yen weakened to the US dollar to 119.65 compared to the previous rate of 119.55 , he said .
He further said the market was now focusing its attention on the issuance of data on the US economy in the January-March period .
The US economy in the first quarter of this year was predicted to grow 1.8 percent , a decrease since 2005 .
We are optimistic that the rupiah will remain below Rp9,100 against the US dollar , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said here on Wednesday the central bank would strive to lower its reference interest rate to 8.5 percent , the figure assumed in the 2007 State Budget .
The target in our mind is to lower it to 8.5 percent but we will see how the dymanics will be , he said after attending the swearing in of new cabinet ministers and attorney general at the presidential palace .
He said the room for lowering the BI rate further was still quite big in view of the dynamics of the country's economic growth .
If the dynamics of growth is like this while international liquidity is abundant and the inflation target is likely to be met , I think the rate may still be lowered .
By how much it can be cut will depend on coming month-to-month developments , he said .
Burhanuddin said however he also saw problems that could hinder efforts to lower the rate to reach 8.5 percent such as the target of five percent plus and minus one percent inflation in 2008 .
The target is quite hard to achieve because the idea of double-digit inflation has long been rooted in the people's minds , he said .
To change the mindset , he said BI would strive to ensure that the inflation rate would be one digit or even lower .
How far the inflation rate would be lowered Burhanuddin said it would be compared to that in the country's rivals such as Thailand and Malaysia .
If it could reach four to five percent it will be good for the economy , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said here on Wednesday the central bank would maintain the rupiah's exchange rate at between Rp8,500 and Rp9,500 against the US dollar .
He said the recent appreciation of the national currency is still within a range in line with Bank Indonesia's survey .
We are still quite comfortable .
He said according to a BI survey conducted on 400 exporters and importers in the country , the ideal range for the rupiah's exchange rate was Rp8,500 to Rp9,500 per US dollar .
Burhanuddin said the sharp rise in the rupiah's value this week reaching Rp8,670 per dollar had occurred following a big flow of funds from overseas .
We continue to maintain the volatility of the rupiah's exchange rate , he said adding that the rupiah's recent appreciation was attributed to international funds that were seeking places for investment and Indonesia proved to be still attractive .
Indonesia will ask the World Bank , the Asian Developemnt Bank ADB and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation JBIC to disburse all the aid commitments of its donor countries totaling US $ 1.75 billion to cover a deficit in its 2007 state budget , a development planning official said .
Syahrial said the deficit was meanwhile expected to increase to 1.5 - 1.8 percent but the government had at present no plan to seek additional loans to cover the extra shortfall .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani and National Development Planning Minister Paskah Suzetta have said if the deficit increases , the extra deficit should be covered with foreign loans only if efforts to raise funds from other sources fail , Syahrial said .
He said the increase in the deficit could be covered with money saved through greater efficiency in spending and the issuance of state debentures .
If these efforts failed , steps could be taken to obtain more foreign laons .
The US $ 1.75 billion loans consisted of 600 million dollars from the World Bank , one billion dollars from the Asian Development Bank and the remaining one from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation .
Bank Indonesia BI will keep safeguarding the volatility of the country's currency , the rupiah , which continues to strengthen and now has reached Rp8,750 against the US dollar .
We will never announce the tolerable range of the volatility but we will continue to control it because volatility may cause uncertainty which is not good for the economy , BI Senior Deputy Governor Miranda Gultom said here on Monday .
She said BI did not want the rupiah to appreciate or to weaken abruptly and therefore , as you have seen BI sometimes intervenes to prevent a sharp rise .
Miranda declined to tell if BI would soon take action to slow down the rupiah's appreciation or to lead it to a certain level .
She said the current appreciation would improve the balance sheet in companies that had overseas debts .
It will also automatically improve inflation as inflation will drop if the prices of imported goods and investment decline , she said .
She said in the short term the appreciation would dampen inflation and boost economic growth .
A rupiah appreciation always carries connotations of improving indicators of the economy as a whole .
That is the main indicator of a country's economy so that we hope the economy will be better as a result of the appreciation and sentiment is also improving , she said .
Miranda said based on its study BI concluded there was a positive relationship between the rupiah's appreciation and the economy and inflation .
According to BI calculations an appreciation of one percent will create 0.05 growth and depress inflation by 0.07 percent or in other words a ten percent appreciation will create 0.5 percent growth and a 0.7 percent inflation decline , she said .
Miranda said in the long term the appreciation if responded to well would not cause inflation pressure .
The appreciation , if followed by improving expenditures of the government and companies and infrastructure in the long term will also increase supply and if supply is increasing in the long term , inflation expectation will decrease , she said .
She said BI would support indicators that could bring inflation down .
Integrated timber processing industry company PT Barito Pacific Timber BRPT has stopped operating PT Mangole Timber Producers , a subsidiary in Mangole island in North Maluku province , a spokesperson has said .
The decision was made as the company had face a shortage of log which was used as raw material , BRPT director Anton B S Hudyana told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Tuesday .
According to Anton , the closure of PT Mangole did not create impact on BRPT as the latter had conducted a rationalization in PT Mangole to turn the firm into a producer of veneer which was needed by PT Tunggal Agathis Indah Wood Industries TAIWI - also a subsidiary of BRPT .
Indonesian rating company PT Pefindo has given publicly-listed recreational park firm PT Pembangunan Jaya Ancol PJAA and its Rp200 billion worth of bond ` idA +' , a spokesperson has said .
The rate showed that PJAA had strong market position , stable income , very conservative capital structure and very strong cash flow protection , Pefindo analyst Andi Setiawan said here Tuesday .
However , he said , legal affairs potential in property business and lack of growth potential in recreational business segment had weakened the rate .
PJAA which was formally established in 1992 formerly was an executive body set up by the Jakarta city administration in 1966 to develop Ancol area into a recreational center .
PJAA has been widely known as the operator of Dunia Fantasi or fantasy world recreational park and other recreational centers like Gelanggang Samudra park and Atlantis park .
The company is also engaged in property business notably in reclamation area in coastal area in North Jakarta .
Some 72 percent of PJAA shares have been controlled by the Jakarta city administration , 18 percent by PT Pembangunan Jaya and the remaining 10 percent by public .
Bank Indonesia Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said he was optimistic the Indonesian Interest Rate SBI would reach between 7.5 and 8.0 percent in 2008 .
He said after meeting with members of the House of Representatives' Commission XI here on Tuesday the target would be reached following improvements in the world economy in terms of liquidity or macro-economic conditions .
He said there would also still be the possibility for the central bank to conduct monetary operations to meet the target .
We see the possibilities for the monetary operations at home .
Based on calculations , it is possible for us to lower the SBI to 7.5 or 8.0 percent , he said .
According to a government projection , global economic growth will slow down a bit from 5.4 percent in 2006 to 4.9 percent this year .
Bank Indonesia this year had lowered the rate four times .
The board of governors see there are still positive signs of growth mainly because of improving export performance and private investment .
We see it , the chief of the bank's directorate of strategic planning and public relations , Budi Mulia , said .
The government raised Rp4.3 trillion from a reopening auction of FR0042 and FR0045 bonds which were to mature on July 15 , 2027 and May 15 , 2037 respectively , a Finance Ministry official said .
The FR0042 bond carried a coupon rate of 10.25 percent and the FR0045 coupon rate of 9.75 percent , Samauar Said , the ministry's chief information officer , said here Wednesday .
The FR0042 bond had an average yield of 9.76923 percent and FR0045 carried an average yield of 10.06877 percent .
The government took a nominal amount of Rp2.6 trillion from FR0042 bond auction which earned Rp10.435 trillion and Rp1.7 trillion from FR0045 bond auction which fetched Rp10.78 trillion .
The government set May 24 , 2007 as the date for settlement of the transactions while the auction was conducted on May 22 , 2007 .
Stock trading in the morning session of the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX rose to 2,100 , a level never reached before in Indonesian stock market history , a broker said .
Capital inflow to the floor was strong thanks to a conducive national economic situation and the position of the central bank benchmark interest rate under 9 percent , Millenium Danatama Securities broker Ahmad Riyadi said here Wednesday .
Foreign investors have mainly bought blue chips in the telecommunication and mining sectors .
The index will continue to go up , he said .
The rise in blue chips stock prices also affected the prices of shares of other firms , Ahmad said .
The Jakarta composite share price index was closed Wednesday morning at 2,102,928 representing an increase of 24,174 points or 1.16 percent while the LQ45 index increased by 5,388 points to 442,479 .
The volume of share transactions was recorded at 3.1 billion shares valued at Rp2.8 trillion on Wednesday morning .
The number of strengthening stocks rose to 117 , that of weakening ones reached 32 and that of stable stocks was recorded at 52 .
The price of Telkom shares rose to Rp9,600 from Rp250 , that of Astra International shares to Rp16.600 from Rp400 , of Antam shares to Rp15,900 from Rp100 , of Medco shares to Rp3,725 from Rp75 and of Astra Argo Lestari shares to Rp14,900 from Rp500 .
National automotive industries are this year expected to grow 25 percent compared to 2006 , an automotive industry executive said here on Wednesday .
Automotive industries are expected to produce some 370,000 four-wheel vehicles but thanks to the good economic conditions and the downward trend in the banking interest rates , four-wheel vehicle production could eveb reach 400,000 units this year , PT Astra Internasional Presdident Director Machael D Ruslim said .
He said Astra was expected to remain the market leader .
PT Astra's sales during the first quarter of 2007 reached 84,511 units , or an increase by six percent compared with the same period in 2006 , he said .
Astra Group's sales remained stable at 46,320 units , although the market dropped from 58 percent to 55 percent , he added .
In the meantime , director of Astra Honda Motor Tossin Himawan said the company's motorcycle sales were expected to reach 4.8 million to 4.9 million units this year .
We will try our best to maintain our position as the biggest seller .
Actually , the lowering of the banking interest rates is not the only factor spurring automotive sales , he said .
Japanese automotive company Mitsubishi plans to invest US $ 6 billion in Indonesia or three times its earlier commitment of US $ 2 billion , Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla said here on Wednesday .
He made the statement after receiving Mitsubishi executives at the Hotel Imperial where he is staying during his visit in the Japanese capital .
He said besides Mitsubishi , another Japanese company , namely Mitsui , had also made a commitment to continue investing in Indonesia .
Discussions at the meeting were related to investment in the automotive and electronic sectors , he said .
Mitsubishi had earlier pledged to invest US $ 2 billion but after Jusuf Kalla asked it to be more serious in its commitment , the company raised its pledge to US $ 6 billion .
According to the head of the Capital Investment Coordinating Agency BKPM , M Lutfi , who took part in the meeting , Mitsubishi's commitment was big progress as the company's investment across the world reached US $ 10 billion with Indonesia so far receiving US $ 2 billion .
About the vice president's meeting with Mitsui executives , he said the discussion also touched on a plan to develop biofuel using sugarcane as raw materials with an investment of US $ 60 million , The project was expected to absorb 60,000 workers directly or indirectly .
Regarding the technology to be used in the biofuel project , he said it would follow the one developed in a cooperation project between Mitsubishi and Brazil .
He said BKPM had already made arrangements for the acquisition of land for the biofuel project in Southeast Sulawesi .
They are seriously interested in it and had earlier cooperated with Brazil and therefore the model to be developed will be like the one in Brazil , he said .
Visiting Vice President Jusuf Kalla wished Japan would increase its investment in the manufacturing industry in Indonesia to provide more jobs and speed up the country's economic growth .
We hope Japan understands our aspirations and increases its investment in the manufacturing industry , Jusuf Kalla said after meeting Japanese businessmen here on Wednesday .
The Vice President touching on the economic relations between the two countries , pointed out that Indonesia also understood Japan's aspirations .
What we need in economic cooperation from Japan is mutual understanding .
Okay , we could fulfil Japanese aspirations , but our aspirations include our wish that Japan would increase its investment in the manufacturing industry in Indonesia , he said .
In his meeting with Japanese businessmen , Jusuf Kalla also touched on Japan's huge demand for Indonesia's natural gas , so that Indonesia should benefit from its huge energy supply .
Economic activities in the gas sector does not lead to an increase in employment opportunities .
What we need now is economic activities which involve a great number of workers , Jusuf Kalla said .
Energy such as gas and coal has become Indonesia's economic strength .
Adequate and serious attention must be given to the energy sector , apart from the agriculture sector , which are vital resources for the country .
In his five-day visit to Japan , the Vice President would also meet Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and its foreign minister .
Jusuf Kalla will also attend an international conference held by Nikkei , the noted Japanese press institute .
International rating firm Moody's Investors Service has given a B2 rating to publicly-listed tire manufacturer PT Gajah Tunggal's US $ 95-million bond , a spokesperson said .
Moody's also gave a ' B2 ' rating to the corporation and its $ 325-million bond which was issued in 2005 , Elizabeth Allen , Moody's main analyst for Gajah Tunggal firm , said here Monday .
The prospects for all ratings are negative .
But the ratings will grow from negative to stable if the plan to issue the bonds is realized , she said .
The issuance of the $ 95-million bond will reduce the high risk in external refinancing by 2008 , Gajah Tunggal has a $ 69 - million debt which will mature late next year .
The bond will improve Gajah Tunggal's liquidity profile and increase its capital expenditures , she said , The company is primarily engaged in the production and marketing of a range of tires and inner tubes for motorcycles , passenger cars , commercial cars , off-road vehicles and industrial and heavy equipment vehicles .
Publicly-listed Bank Century Tbk has set a target of posting Rp127.2 billion in net profit this year on an expected drop in operational cost to Rp278 billion , its president director said .
Operational cost was expected to fall to Rp278 billion in 2007 from Rp558.58 billion a year earlier , Hermanus Hasan Muslim said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here on Monday .
He said the bank planned to expand its loans to Rp3.5 trillion this year compared to Rp2.39 trillion the year before .
The bank targeted to raise Rp11.9 trillion in third party funds this year , up from Rp11.213 trillion last year .
Indonesia's inflation rate in May stood at 0.10 percent , mainly fueled by a 6.04 percent rise in cooking oil prices , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
Of the 45 cities surveyed , 23 saw inflation and 22 recorded deflation .
The highest inflation of 2.00 percent was recorded in Ambon and the lowest inflation of 0.01 percent in Palangkaraya .
The highest deflation of 2.07 percent occurred in Banda Aceh and the lowest deflation of 0.01 percent in Jambi , deputy BPS head for economic statistics Pietojo said on Monday .
The May inflation brought inflation in the calender year January-May 2007 to 1.84 percent , he said , On a yearly basis , inflation stood at 6.01 percent in May , he said .
Core inflation was recorded at a monthly 0.32 percent , a calender-yearly 2.01 percent and an on-year 5.62 percent , he said .
He said the increases in cooking oil prices contributed 0.08 percent , security fees 0.05 percent , poultry eggs 0.03 percent , onion 0.03 percent , and house rentals 0.02 percent to the May inflation .
Meanwhile , a decline in rice prices contributed 0.14 percent , red chilis 0.11 percent and chilis 0.03 percent to the deflation .
The government has set the inflation rate target for 2007 at 6.7 percent .
The House of Representatives DPR agreed to a number of macro economic assumptions for 2008 in a working meeting with the government here on Monday , Economic growth in 2008 was estimated at 6.5-6.9 percent , inflation 5.5-6.5 percent , interest on Bank Indonesia short-term promissory notes SBI 7-8 percent and the rupiah's exchange rate Rp9,100-Rp9,400 per US dollar .
Earlier , the House's Commission XI on finance , national development planning , banking industry , and non-bank financial institutions considered the government-set economic growth target of 6.6-7.0 percent for 2008 too high and proposed what its said was the realistic growth rate of 6.5-6.9 percent .
In response , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said if the government-proposed economic growth of 6.6-7.0 percent for next year was lowered , the inflation rate might slightly be lower than 6.0-6.5 percent as projected before .
In our view , the moderate figure is 5.5-6.5 percent , she said .
Both the government and the House agreed to the rupiah's assumed exchange rate of Rp9,100-Rp9,400 per US dollar , particularly when it came to the prospects for the balance of payments .
Since the 2008 inflation rate was expected to fall short of the projection , the SBI rate might decline to a range of 7.0-8.0 percent from 7.5-8.0 percent as originally proposed , Sri Mulyani said .
The House's Commission XI only discussed macro economic assumptions related to economic growth , inflation rate , SBI rate , and the rupiah's exchange rate , while those related to oil prices and production were to be discussed in a meeting between the government and the House Commission VII on energy and mineral resources , research and technology and the environment .
The results of the meeting between House Commission XI and the government will be referred to a meeting of the House's Budgetary Committee for approval .
Taxation Director General Darmin Nasution said his office would cross check state telecommunications firm PT Indosat's tax payments for its derivatives transactions made between 2004 and 2006 .
We noticed that the amount of PT Indosat's tax payments has been declining in the last several years , It is worth noting why it happened , the director general told media editors here on Tuesday night .
He said that his office had been told by PT Indosat about the reasons why the amount of its tax payments declined but it still needed to gather more inforamtion and recheck it following lagislator Dradjad H Wibowo's revelation of that matter .
Let's collect and assess the information , We will take actions if we find any indication , Nasution said .
But the taxation director general stopped short of making more detailed comments on the matter .
As a result , the government lost potential tax revenues worth Rp323 billion .
Wibowo of the House's Financial Affairs Commission suspected that PT Indosat had embazzled taxes by filling a report of losses from derivatives transactions made from 2004 to 2006 .
This , Wibowo said , is apparent in Indosat's consolidated balance sheet which has an item on loss on change in fair value of derivatives , which in 2004 showed a loss of Rp170.45 billion , Rp44.21 billion in 2005 , and Rp438 billion in 2006 .
Indosat's total losses as the result of the derivatives transactions covering a period of three years amounted to Rp653 billion .
These , however , have yet to be audited , and therefore can change .
But these losses are still a financial scandal which cannot be tolerated , he pointed out .
The number of individual tax payers in Indonesia increased by only 200,000 to 300,000 a year during the past five years , the country's top tax official said .
In addition , only about 33 percent to 34 percent of them pay their taxes regularly , Darmin Nasution , director general of taxes , told media editors here on Tuesday night .
The number of individual tax payers was increasing at a very slow pace as at the end of 2006 it stood at only 3.3 million , and only 2.9 million of them were effective tax payers , Darmin said .
He said the slowness in the increase in the number of individual tax payers was due to the fact that the directorate general of taxes had not yet provided maximum service to the people while the people's desire to pay taxes was still low .
Nasution said if Indonesia's population was 220 million , the number of individual tax payers should be at least between 20 million and 25 million .
In order to increase the number of tax payers the directorate general was trying to modernize its taxation services and extensify its tax-base sources .
We will improve our services , provide facilities and develop a database and administration system , he said .
Robert Zoellick , the presumed next head of the World Bank , will shoulder the task of rebuilding trust in the development lender after a scandal at the top exposed deep divisions .
US President George W. Bush nominated Zoellick to succeed World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz , who was forced to resign over a favoritism scandal involving his companion , a bank employee .
PT Sampoerno Agro SGRO has already listed 1.890 billion shares at the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX , a report has said .
In the report to the JSX here on Monday , SGRO stated the listed shares which each had nominal value of Rp200 comprised 461.350 million shares , which had just sold in an IPO and the rest which was controlled by shareholders' stakes .
The SGRO shares were from agricultural sector including plantations .
Through the IPO , PT Sampoerna Agro sold its share at Rp2,430 and earned Rp1.079 trillion .
After the IPO , SGRO shareholders composed of Venture Max Resources Pte. Ltd which controlled 71.81 percent , PT Nitiagro Lestari , which owned 3.78 percent , and the public which had bought 24.41 percent of SGRO shares .
After the listing , SGRO share directly rebound from Rp2,340 to Rp2,700 .
Local rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has reaffirmed its idA - stable outlook rating for leasing company PT Indomobil Finance Indonesia for a period of January 19 , 2007 to May 1 , 2008 , Pefindo director Urip Suprodjo said .
The rating was based on financial data and information provided by the company and its audited financial statement ended on December 31 , 2006 , he said .
A company with an idA rating has stronger financial support than any other Indonesian obligor to meet its long-term financial obligations but is fairly sensitive to detrimental situation , he said .
The mark - indicates that the rating was relatively weak and below the average category of its kind .
Bank Indonesia BI is urging banks to increase their credits for sugarcane-based industries , BI Deputy Governor Muliaman D. Hadad said here on Tuesday .
Banks' role in providing credits for sugarcane-based industries has remained small because the industries have not shown their real potentials , the central bank deputy governor said on the sidelines of a seminar on the prospects and financing of sugarcane-based industries .
He said there were actually a lot of banks which had provided credits for sugar industries , This was because the industries' non-performing loan level was low and they had good prospects not only in sugar production but also in the making of down-stream products such as ethanol
Muliaman said BI had recorded that a total of 32 banks had financed projects in this sector with credits totaling Rp1.6 trillion , He said the credit amount was relatively big but it still could be increased further , After all , this sector had good potentials
Banks have begun to understand and to provide relatively big credits after these industries' experience was exposed to them , he said .
He said the sugarcane-based industires non-performing loan ratio was also small , namely only 0.33 percent in the plantation sector and 2.11 percent in sugarcane industries and its down-stream actvities .
The industries also needed support in the form of clear policies with regard to environmental impact analyses in accordance with their condition without sacrificing the environment .
The prospect of the financing in this sector was categorically bright as these industries needed some Rp8.3 trillion in the 2005-2010 period throughout the country .
But the BI official also said the problem faced by these industries did not only have to do with financing but also with technical aspects .
The problems are not only related to financing but also to techincal aspects which we and other relevant agencies have to think of , this of course will need coordination , he said .
The value of the rupiah against the US dollar on the Jakarta Inter Bank Spot Market on Tuesday afternoon dropped to approach the level of 9,100 per US $ as market agents actively bought the US greenback .
Trading in the Indonesian unit was closed at Rp9,063 / 9,070 against the US dollar compared to Rp9,023 / 9,045 on the previous day or weaker by 40 points .
Retail Banking Director of PT Bank Mega Tbk publicly listed Kostaman Thayib said the rupiah was under greater pressure on the market as state companies actively bought US dollars to pay debts that had matured .
Therefore , market pressure was stronger causing the rupiah to drop although there was an external rumor that the Japanese yen was strengthening against the US dollar .
He said the yen had strengthened after the Japanese finance minister reminded the market of the recent drop in the Japanese currency .
We are optimistic that the yen will continue to strengthen to the position of 110 which constitutes the psychological border figure as the position of the yen is now still far over the level of 120 , he said .
The US dollar weakened by 0.2 percent against the yen to 123.40 yen and the euro also weakened to 166.05 or dropped by 0.25 percent .
According to him , the strengthening yen would have a positive impact on the domestic money market , especially the rupiah but the positive external factor did not happen .
Such a condition occurred because market agents still focused on the purchase of US dollar to meet their needs , he said .
He pointed out that the rupiah could reach the level of 9,100 to the US dollar as at that level the rupiah exchange rate was considered still stable .
However , the Indonesian currency still has the opportunity to rebound if the Japanese central bank BOJ and the US central bank The Fed was certain to increase their interest rates .
BOJ would raise its interest rate to make yen continue to strengthen as its position was now still far over the level of 110 , and The Fed would also do the same to curb the inflation which tended to rise , he said .
We are awaiting the local agents' reactions to the improving yen which is expected to give positive impacts to rupiah , he added .
The rupiah is now corrected as the regional share market is weakening due to the decrease in the stocks of Wall Street , while the market agents worry about the US market which tends to drop , Kostaman said .
Publicly-listed telecommunications operator PT Bakrie Telecom Tbk said on Tuesday it has secured a syndicated loan of US $ 145 million from foreign financial institutions .
PT Bakrie Telecom would use the loan to settle its debts amounting to Rp450 billion and to finance investment expenditure in 2007 , the company's president director , Anindya Bakrie , said in a press statement .
The loan would mature in five years with a grace period of two years , he said .
To meet the investment expenditure estimated at US $ 220 million , the company will also obtain US $ 125 million in credits from other financial institutions and issue bonds worth Rp500 billion , he said .
PT Media Nusantara Citra Tbk. MNC , Indonesia's integrated media company , said on Wednesday its net profit this year is likely to increase 38 percent to Rp399.16 billion from a year earlier .
The increase was expected to be fueled by net sales projected to climb 36 percent to Rp2.86 trillion from the year before , the company said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
MNC , which is 70 percent owned by PT Global Mediacom Tbk. PT Bimantara Citra Tbk. has sold 30 percent of its total shares to the public in its initial public offering on June 22 .
MNC is a holding company of television stations RCTI , TPI and Global TV , Harian Seputar Indonesia daily , Genie , Mom & Kiddie and Realita Tabloids , Radio Trijaya Network , Radio Dangdut TPI , Radio ARH Global , Women Radio and media online www.okezone.com .
The government will propose an additional budget of Rp500 billion to Rp600 billion for the construction of infrastructure that had been damaged by the mudflow of Lapindo Brantas mining company in Sidoarjo , East Java .
The government has made a request to the House of Representatives for additional budget of Rp 500 billion to Rp 600 billion for the rehabilitation damaged infrastructure , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said at a socialization of the proper management of government accounts at the different ministries and agencies , here on Wednesday .
The minister said that the additional funds would be proposed by the Public Works Ministry through the 2007 revised state budget .
The funds are for damaged infrastructure rehabilitation , the budget implementation list DIPA is in the hand of the Minister of Public Works , she said .
Mulyani said that based on Presidential Decree No. 14 / 2007 on the Sidoarjo Mudflow Handling Agency BPLS , the government was responsible for the repair and rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure which affected the people's life and the national economy such as roads and railway tracks .
Because of flooding and bing covered by mud , the infrastructure like roads and rail tracks can no longer function , and have to be rehabilitated or relocated .
As it now has entered the year 2007 , we will propose an additional budget allocation in the revised 2007 state budget to the House of Representatives DPR through the Public Works Ministry , the finance minister said .
On the occasion the minister also said that the government would not bail out compensation funds for the mudflow victims .
There is no bail out fund , she added .
Previously , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said the government would not lend money for paying compensations to the victims of mudflow from PT Lapindo Brantas operations in Porong , Sidoarjo , East Java .
Actually there has been an idea of the government to lend money , but it would no longer be necessary , because PT Lapindo Brantas is able to make the payments , he said at a press conference after a meeting to discuss the handling of the disaster .
The Indonesian government last year canceled 11 foreign-funded projects across the country for various reasons , the Finance Ministry said .
The Danish-funded project worth 21.96 million euros was canceled due to the absence of a permit from the Office of the State Enterprises Minister , it said .
The two projects which involved the Health Ministry were canceled because of failure to use up the total loans until the end of loan period .
One of the ADB-funded projects was Metro Medan Urban Development Project worth US $ 5.82 million of the total US $ 82.8 million pledged , The project run by the Public Works Ministry was canceled because it had already been closed .
The other ADB-funded project was Small Medium Enterprise Export Development Project worth US $ 72.83 million of the total US $ 85 million pledged , The project run by the Directorate General of Treasury at the Finance Ministry was canceled because the executing bank failed to distribute funds to small and medium enterprises
The JBIC-funded project was Ciliwung-Cisadane River Flood Control Project worth US $ 16.91 million of the total US $ 17.33 million pledged. The project was canceled because of problems related to land clearance .
PT Charoen Pokphand Indonesia Tbk at a shareholders' general meeting here on Wednesday decided to distribute dividends worth Rp38 per share .
Total amount of the dividends the company would pay reached Rp62.4 billion , or 40 percent of its 2006 net profit of Rp157.06 billion .
The rest of the net profit totalling Rp94 billion will be withheld for increasing the company's working capital , the company's president director , Thomas Effendy , said .
In the meeting , the shareholders agreed on plans to buy 99.92 percent equity in PT Vista Grain belonging to PT Central Pertiwi , 99.96 percent shares of PT Pertiwi Indonesia in PT Primafood International , fixed assets consisting of 58,400 square meters plot of land at Km26 of the Surabaya-Mojokerto road and sell a 29,375 square meters plot of land on Jalan Mojokerto .
The total land acquisition is worth Rp164 billion , he said .
The Surabaya Stock Exchange BES has served written warnings on four bond issuers for their lateness in submitting 2006 financial statements until the given date .
The four bond issuers are PT Lontar Papyrus Pulp & Paper Industry LPPI , PT Newera Footwear Indonesia NEFI , state electricity firm PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara and PT Pindo Deli Pulp & Paper Mills PIDL .
Earlier , on June 5 , the four bond issuers , along with share issuers PT Arpeni Pratama Ocean Line Tbk APOL , PT Bank Muamalat Indonesia Tbk BBMI and PT Charoen Pokphan Indonesia Tbk CPIN and bond issuers PT Jasa Marga Persero , PT Rajawali Citra Televisi Indonesia and PT Swadharma Indotama Finance received first written warnings .
The Finance Ministry has projected the state budget deficit in the second aemester of 2007 at Rp59.92 trillion with expenditure estimated at Rp458.02 trillion or 60 percent of the 2007 state budget , and revenues at Rp398.10 trillion 55.1 percent .
The state expenditure forecast consists of the central government's expenditure estimated at Rp320.56 trillion 63.5 percent and regional governments' expenditure projected at Rp137.461 trillion 53.1 percent , according to the second-half state budget prognosis , a copy of which was made available on Friday .
The higher absorption of the central government's budget in the second semester of 2007 has to do with the start of physical projects and the disbursement of electricity subsidy due to an increase in the production cost of power supplies , the report said .
The state revenue projection consists of tax receipts projected at R284.257 trillion 55.8 percent , non-tax state revenues estimated at Rp111.503 trillion 52.9 percent and grants projected at Rp2.342 trillion 87.8 percent .
The higher state revenue and grant projections in the second semester of 2007 are due among others to developments in macro economic variables ; measures to revise tax , customs and excise arrangements and procedures ; as well as measures to revise the system and procedure of paying non-tax state revenues , the report said .
To offset the Rp59.92 trillion deficit , the ministry has projected domestic funding at Rp39.389 trillion 71.5 percent and foreign funding at Rp9.887 trillion minus 67.9 percent .
The report said Rp10.823 trillion of the domestic funding will originate from the domestic banking industry , Rp4.7 trillion from the privatization of state firms , Rp521.7 billion from the sale of banks' assets under the restructuring program , and Rp28.044 trillion from the issuance of state bonds , minus Rp2.7 trillion as a result of state capital participation .
Foreign funding would come from disbursement of program loans worth Rp19.11 trillion and project loans worth Rp20.184 trillion , minus Rp29.40 trillion in instalments on foreign debts .
The government is optimistic about achieving the economic growth target of 6.3 percent for 2007 although the state expenditure in the first half of this year is projected to reach 37.8 percent of the state budget , a minister said .
I am optimistic that the economy will expand 6.3 percent in 2007 , State Minister for National Development Planning Paskah Suzetta said here at the weekend .
He said the 2007 economic growth would be driven not only by state expenditure but also by exports , imports , public consumption and private investment .
Earlier , the government announced that the state expenditure in the first semester of 2007 is projected to reach Rp288.4 trillion or 37.8 percent of the state budget amounting to Rp763.6 trillion .
The government said the central government's expenditure in the first half of 2007 is estimated at Rp173.3 trillion 34.3 percent and the regional governments' expenditure at Rp115.1 trillion 44.5 percent .
The central government's expenditure included goods spending which reached Rp15.1 trillion 20.9 percent and capital spending which reached Rp12.3 trillion 16.8 percent .
Paskah , who is also chairman of the National Development Planning Board Bappenas said both goods and capital spending was very low on the early days of the budget year but the spending began to increase in the second quarter up to the fourth quarter of this year .
Earlier , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said the 2007 economic growth would be about the same as the initial forecast of 6.3 percent , to be helped by public consumption growth of 5.1 percent , government consumption growth of 8.9 percent , investment growth of 12.3 percent , export growth of 9.9 percent , and import growth of 14.2 percent .
The economy is projected to expand 6-6.1 percent in the first half of 2007 , fueled by public consumption growth of 4.7 percent , government consumption growth of 6.6 percent , investment growth of 9.9 percent , export growth of 9.3 percent , and import growth of 12.3 percent .
The minister hoped the economy would expand 6.4-6.6 percent in the second semester of 2007 with public consumption expected to grow 5.6 percent , government consumption 11.1 percent , investment 14.6 percent , export 10.6 percent , and import 15.9 percent .
Indonesian rating agency Pefindo has upgraded the rating of PT Kalbe Farma Tbk KLBF and its 1 / 2006 bonds worth Rp300 billion to idAA from idAA - with a stable outlook , an analyst said .
The idAA rating reflected the company's strong market position , good diversification of product portfolio and better financial performance , Pefindo analyst Vonny Widjaja said on Monday .
However , the rating was limited by a slow sale growth in 2006 , she said .
KLBF is currently Indonesia's largest pharmacy company which is supported by several subsidiaries namely PT Bintang Toedjoe , PT Hexpharm Jaya , PT Saka Farma , PT Finusolprima and PT Dankos Farma .
PT Kalbe Farma is also engaged in several other businesses such as in health food production through PT Sanghiang Perkasa , in distribution services through PT Enseval Putera Megatrading Tbk and in packaging services through PT Kageo Igar Jaya Tbk , she said .
Per March 31 , 2007 , KLBF's share holders consist of PT Gira Sole Prima 9.43 percent , PT Santa Seha Sanadi 8.94 percent , PT Lucasta Murni Cemerlang 8.76 percent , PT Diptanala Bahana 8.65 percent , PT Bina Artha Charisma 7.32 percent , PT Ladang Ira Panen 7.31 percent and the public 49.59 percent .
KLBF intended to buy back not more than 10 percent of shares that the company had released with a total fund of about Rp1.23 trillion , Vonny said .
Up to March 31 , 2007 , the company managed to buy back shares worth Rp23 billion , or about two percent of its target .
Stock rating agency PT Pefindo has assigned an idA - rating to publicly-listed telecommunications firm PT Bakrie Telecom Tbk. and its plan to issue bonds worth Rp750 billion to finance part of its capital expenditure .
The rating reflected profitable telecommunication industry , proper business model and potential business growth , Pefindo analyst Niken Indriarsih said in a statement on Monday .
But she added the rating remained fragile due to the company's aggressive expansion leading to high financial leverage , and high exposure to foreign currency risks including domestic stiff competition .
As of March 31 , 2007 , Bakrie Telecom is 50.25 percent owned by PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk. , 15.08 percent by CMA Fund Management , 3.17 percent by PT Bakrie Communications , 2.08 percent by Richweb Investments Ltd. , and 29.43 percent by the public .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said on Monday the central bank is optimistic the economy will grow by more than 6 percent this year , citing robust lending growth as a reason .
Apart from that , with the state budget realization rate expected to improve in the third and fourth quarters , economic growth is likely to exceed the figure , Burhanuddin said following a meeting of the bank's board of governors here on Monday .
The meeting agreed that the economy would perform better in the second semester , he said .
The economy in the two previous quarters was on the right track and it would continue to expand during the rest of the year , he said .
He believed full-year inflation rates would hit the central bank's inflation target of 6 , plus or minus 1 , percent for 2007 and of 5 , plus or minus 1 , percent for 2008 .
Stock rating agency PT Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has upgraded the rating of packaged food industry PT Mayora Indah Tbk and its bond due in July 2008 to A + stable outlook from A .
The A + rating reflects the good market for the company's packaged foods , as evident from its sales which grew by 73.48 percent in the first quarter of 2007 from a year earlier , Pefindo analyst Niken Indriarsih said here Tuesday .
The rating was however weakened by increasing cost of raw materials , she said .
Mayora is 32.93 percent owned by PT Unita Branindo , and 67.07 percent by the public .
Publicly-listed PT Bakrie Sumatra Plantation Tbk has set up a joint venture company , Agri Resources BV , with several foreign investors to expand its oil palm plantation area .
We plan to conduct extensive expansion with a target of increasing our plantations by 100,000 hectares within six years' time .
We just received US $ 250 million worth of funds which are certainly very significant for implementing our plan , the company's president director , Ambono Janurianto , said here on Tuesday .
He said his company had a 20-percent share in the new company which is based in the Netherlands by paying around US $ 10 million in participation capital .
The other US $ 90 million of the capital was paid by foreign investment companies and another US $ 150 million from senior secured notes issued by AI Finance BV , an affiliated company set up by the investors' partners in Singapore .
Ambono said on June 26 he had signed a document relating to capital participation in the Agri Resources BV that plans to acquire several plantation companies in the country .
As an initial step he said Agri Resources BV recently acquired a plantation company that holds 36,000 hectares of land in the southern part of Sumatra with 19,000 of them already planted , adding 75 percent of the trees in the planted area was already mature .
Ambono said the joint venture company had entrusted Bakrie Sumatra Plantation Tbk to manage plantation companies it would acquire based on a management agreement .
We enjoy direct advantage through a management fee of US $ 100 per hectare per year from every plantation we manage , he said .
He said Bakrie would also get a marketing fee of US $ 10 per ton of crude palm oil and US $ 5 per ton of palm kernel sold based on an off-take agreement .
We are optimistic the series of transactions that we have made will bring much benefit not only in terms of corporate financial performance but also income and operational performance , he said .
He said Bakrie itself expected to increase its plantation area by at least 7,000 hectares by the end of this year .
Publicly-listed nickel company PT International Nickel Indonesia INCO said it would extend its cooperation with publicly-listed national diversified mining firm PT Antam .
The current cooperation agreement with Antam will expire next year but we have agreed to extend our association , INCO President Director Arif S Siregar said here Wednesday .
Under the cooperation agreement signed in February 2003 Antam had been buying nickel ore from INCO's work contract area in Pomalaa Timur in Southeast Sulawesi to support its ferronickel production activity in Pomalaa .
PT Antam had since mid-2005 bought a total of 1 million tons of nickel ore from PT INCO .
Arif also said INCO would build the Karebbe dam in Pomalaa district starting next month to increase the capacity of its hydropower plant from 275 MW to 365 MW .
The Karebbe dam project would cost US $ 275 million to US $ 580 million and was expected to be completed in mid-2010 , he said .
Indonesia could have been stronger than China , India or Japan in economic terms because it had the advantage of possessing a wide variety of natural resources , Vice President Jusuf Kalla said .
During my overseas trips this year , I witnessed the economic progress many countries including China , India , and Japan are making .
But there was never any doubt in my mind that we could have made faster progress than other countries because not many of them are endowed with as wide a variety of natural resources as we are , Kalla said in his address at a seminar on Mid-2007 Economic Projections here on Thursday .
The vice president said Indonesia's economic strength lay in the world's economic weaknesses in terms of natural resources .
The world's economic weaknesses are limited energy sources , shortage of commodities and also of metals .
These three weaknesses in the world economy are our gain because not many countries have an abundance of energy sources , commodities and metals as we do .
We have oil , coal and many other natural resources , Kalla said .
He said when gas wells in Natuna and Cepu had come on stream next year , Indonesia would again have an energy surplus .
We also have a lot of commodities .
In spite of the recent increase in the cooking oil price , only 30 percent of production poses a problem while the remaining 70 percent is our gain , Kalla said , adding that the 30 percent was needed at home and was exchanged with export duty .
The vice president predicted that the prices of cocoa , corn and coffee would rise and thereby stengthen the Indonesian economy .
The government's present policy should be reversed .
Bank Indonesia BI has given telecommunications company Telkomsel permission to market its E-Money products , a BI official said .
The license has been issued , the central bank's director of accounting and payment systems , Dyah NK Makhijani , said here on Saturday at a central bank discussion on national payment systems for economic journalists and banking staff .
He said the central bank issued the permit after considering the Telkomsel's capability to issue the products .
Besides performance , they Telkomsel also have more than two years of experience in providing pre-paid and post-paid cellulair telephone services , he said .
She said BI was currently promoting non-cash transactions through the use of an E-Money card in economic transactions in the country .
More than 100 million people in the productive-age group in the country were currently only making an average of 12 non-cash transactions a year .
This is very small , she said .
Therefore , she hoped the development in the use of E-Money would change cash to non-cash transactions so that circulation of cash money would be reduced to economize on the printing of bills .
An E-Money card is similar to a credit card which can be used for transactions like paying toll road fees and restaurant bills and other expenses .
Bank Permata posted an unaudited profit of Rp289 billion in the first semester of 2007 , up 41 percent from Rp205 billion in a corresponding period in 2006 , a spokesperson said .
Its net profit after tax in the first six months of this year was recorded at Rp198 billion or 39 percent more than Rp143 billion in the same period of last year , the bank's president director , Steward D. Hall , said here Monday .
He said the increased net profit was supported by a raise in net interest rate and net non-interest rate income .
The bank's loan-to-deposit ratio LDR reached 83 percent as of last June 30 , an increase of 74 percent compared to the figure in a corresponding period the previous year , The two figures were higher compared to the national LDR level which stood at 64 percent .
Bank Permata distributed a total of Rp25 trillion in credits to SMEs and consumers as per June 2007 , up by 12 percent from the figure in a corresponding period last year .
The bank's assets reached a total value of Rp39 trillion as per last June 30 , or 7 percent up compared to a similar period in 2006 .
Transfer of credits significantly grew by 52 percent to Rp8.3 trillion in the first semester of 2007 from Rp5.5 trillion in a corresponding period of last year while savings increased by 16 percent to Rp6.0 trillion from Rp5.2 trillion .
Bank Permata's capital adequacy ratio CAR rose by 3.7 percent to 14.1 percent in the first six months of this year compared to the figure in a corresponding period last year .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX has temporarily suspended Bank Negara Indonesia share trading until further notice , an official said here Wednesday .
The suspension was designed to avoid uncontrollable fluctuations in the Bank BNI share price following its second initial public offering , JSX trade division head Hamdi Hassyarbaini said .
The bourse , he said , was continuously asking information from BNI on the suspension .
Bank BNI sold 3.47 billion shares at the price of Rp2,050 per share beginning Tuesday .
The shares will be listed at the JSX and the Surabaya Stock Exchange SSX on August 13 .
Indonesia's biggest glaze producer PT Ferro Mas Dinamika is one of the industries which are planning to increase their production capacity , Bambang Sugiyaro , a senior manager at the company , said here Wednesday .
Our company is making efforts to raise its production capacity to 1,100 tons per day after PT PGN promised to supply 1.2 million cubic meters of gas a month , he said .
The US company had reduced its production capacity sharply for the past three years due to limited gas supply .
It had even reduced its production capacity by 50 percent last year .
Meanwhile , foodware ceramic manufacturer PT Narumi Indonesia president director Hisashi Sato said his company would also step up production capacity following the beginning of PGN gas supply through the SSWJ distribution system .
The Cikarang-based PT Narumi Indonesia which uses cowbones as raw material for food ware ceramic industry had been relying on expensive liquefied petroleum gas or LPG for the past three years .
Sato said his firm was planning to increase its production capacity by 150 percent next year after PGN started channeling its gas through the SSWJ pipes .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has asked state-owned bank BNI to continue its divestment and right issue although the world's stock markets were fluctuating .
The president asked that the process be continued in accordance with initial plans and he said he had no problem with it , Minister for State Enterprises Sofyan Djalil said here on Thursday .
The minister met with the president in order to report the divestment process of state bank BNI .
He said that the president suggested that the divestment process be continued because the prices BNI offered for its shares were already at the optimum level in the current market conditions .
The minister said that the president was satisfied with his report and understood the market condition as well as the process of BNI's divestment process .
The price is set based on our announcement and our estimates at Rp4 trillion to cover the state budget , he said .
It has now been oversusbscribed .
And there would be no more change under whatever condition so that the government and BNI's revenues from the divestment were guaranteed because it was fully guaranteed by underwriters , he added .
He said that the global market would shortly improve as seen Thursday morning where global stocks gained strength at about 1.5 to 2.5 percent .
The Jakarta stock composite also gained a strength .
We hope it would improve on Friday and Monday based on our expectation , the BNI director said .
In going public , BNI would carry out two parts of its going public activities namely offering 15 percent right issue for BNI's additional capital and 15 percent divestment of government shares .
But of the 30 percent , only 26 percent would be floated in the stock exhange .
Sigit said that the price per share of the right issue was set at Rp2,025 , while the price per share of the divestment was fixed at Rp2,050 .
The government is likely to find it hard to meet investment needs in 2008 to achieve the economic growth target of 6.8 percent , a lawmaker said .
The challenges to meet the investment needs will come from the government itself .
One of the challenges will be the low absorption of the state budget , spokesman of the United Development Party faction in the House of Representatives DPR Syumli Syadli said here Tuesday .
Syumli made the remarks when delivering the faction's general views on the draft 2008 state budget and the government's financial notes in a House plenary session here .
To achieve the economic growth target of 6.8 percent for 2008 , a gross fixed capital of Rp1,296 trillion would be needed , he said .
The government expects private investment in 2008 to reach Rp168.48 trillion or 35.5 percent of the total .
The banking sector is expected to contribute Rp168.48 trillion 13 percent to the investment needs next year , state enterprises 11.7 percent , infrastructure projects 7 percent and other investments 22.5 percent .
Although the government investment is small , it will play a greater role in spurring the real sector's growth as much of the state spending will go to labour-intensive projects , he said .
To achieve the economic growth target of 6.8 percent for 2008 the government would need a direct investment of US $ 100 billion , he said .
However , most of investment inflows had so far been in the form of portfolio investment which was susceptible to turbulence in the financial sector , he said .
We must realize that the lower-than-expected government investment is much caused by domestic factors , namely the government's inconsistency in managing many sectors which have so far impeded investment inflows , he said .
He said rampant illegal levies and weak investment management , coupled with high leakage of investment caused by high cost economy had posed a stumbling block to investment inflows .
Publicly-listed tyre maker PT Gajah Tunggal Tbk has set aside US $ 170 million as capital expenditure to expand its business until 2010 .
To increase the capacity of producing radial tyres , vehicle tyres and vehicle internal tyres , about US $ 170 million in investment is needed , Gajah Tunggal director Catharina Widjaja said in a public presentation here Wednesday .
She said the company needed US $ 100 million in funds to raise the capacity of producing radial tyres to 50,000 units from 30,000 units per day .
The capital expenditure originated from proceeds from the issuance of bonds worth US $ 325 million in 2005 , she said .
Part of the fund has been used for business expansion and the remaining US $ 120 million has been used to repay debts , she said .
The company's total debts now reached US $ 487 million , she said .
Gajah Tunggal in the first half of 2007 posted a net profit of Rp73 billion compared to Rp125 billion in the previous semester .
The government has to earmark US $ 556 million in counterpart fund for project loans worth US $ 2.624 billion in the draft 2008 state budget , a government official said here over the weekend .
The project loans in the draft 2008 state budget were drawn up based on the amount of loan need for a multi-year project funding which will be carried out in 2008 , Director for Funding Monitoring and Evaluation of the National Development Planning Board Bappenas , Benny Setiawan , said .
He said that the amount was proposed by the Bappenas and was approved by the government , in this case the Ministry of Finance as the competent institution .
Setiawan said that the amount of the project loans covered 176 projects , most of which were to be financed by Japan Bank for Reconstruction JBIC , the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank ADB .
He said that the Bappenas had proposed a project loan of US $ 3.208 billion with a counterpart fund amounting to US $ 679.9 million .
But after a fiscal calculation is made , only US $ 2.64 billion project loans were approved .
Thus , the counterpart fund also decreased to US $ 556.09 million , he said .
Based on the previous proposal , the JBIC would provide the biggest amount at US $ 775.1 million for 37 projects , followed by the world bank US $ 708.3 million for 37 projects , the ADB US $ 608 million for 40 projects , other international donor institutions such as the Islamic Development Bank IDB and the International Fund for Agricultural Development IFAD US $ 132.2 million for 17 projects .
Donor countries such as Australia , the Netherlands , China , Denmark , Italy , Hungary , Germany , South Korea , Spain and Norway would also provide US $ 405.7 million for 35 projects , besides that , an amount of US $ 579.1 would be obtained from export facilities for projects in the defense and security sector
Indonesia's monthly inflation rate rose 0.75 percent in August , fueled by an increase in the price indice in the education , recreation and sports sectors and in the prices of foodstuffs , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
August's inflation brought the calendar inflation January-August rate to 3.58 percent and the year-on-year inflation August 2006-August 2007 rate to 6.51 percent , BPS Chairman Rusman Heriawan said here Monday .
The on-year inflation rate stood at 3.58 percent in August .
Since the government has set the inflation target of 6.0 percent for this year we still have a reserve of 2.4 percent .
This means that on-month inflation must average 0.60 percent in the four months ahead .
Over the period there will be inflation which may be lower or higher than expected .
What is important is that the government can ensure consumers of an adequate supply of goods , he said .
He said the government-set inflation target of 6.0 percent for 2007 was somewhat risky as the monthly inflation figures in July and August 2007 were fairly higher than in the same period last year .
Inflation rose on month to 0.72 percent and 0.75 percent respectively in July and August 2007 from 0.45 percent and 0.33 percent in the same period last year .
The BPS noted that spending on education , recreation and sports in August rose 3.18 percent , foodstuffs 0.79 percent gas and fuel 0.77 percent from a month earlier .
The kerosene price rose 9.7 percent , contributing 0.16 percent to inflation .
Kerosene belongs to the group of administered prices besides premium gasoline and diesel oil .
So far , Pertamina gasoline stations are the only premium gasoline and diesel oil retailers , he said .
The keronese price rose due in part to state oil and gas company Pertamina's decision to reduce supplies in line with the government's kerosene-to-gas conversion program , he said , since August 2006 , the price of cooking oil had increased 42 percent , he said .
The price of cooking oil in August increased 4.3 percent from July , adding another 0.07 percent to the inflation figure , he said .
Core inflation , which excludes volatile food prices and administered fuel prices , was recorded at a monthly 0.69 percent and an on-year 5.66 percent .
Indonesia saw a surplus of US $ 3.55 billion in its foreign trade in August with exports rising to US $ 9.81 billion and imports standing at US $ 6.26 billion .
Cumulatively , the country's trade surplus in the first seven months of 2007 reached US $ 23.64 billion , Central Bureau of Statistics BPS Chief Rusman Heriawan said on Monday , in the January-July 2007 period , Indonesia's exports reached US $ 63.53 billion and its imports stood at US $ 39.89 billion , he said .
He also said Indonesia suffered a deficit in its trade with China over the past few months .
Cumulatively , China was listed as the biggest supplier of non-oil / non-gas commodities to Indonesia , reaching US $ 4.35 billion , Our exports to China were only recorded at US $ 3.70 billion so we suffered a deficit , he said .
He said the surplus came mostly from Indonesia's trade with Japan , Indonesia's exports to Japan last month reached US $ 7.994 billion , while its imports from the East Asian nation stood at US $ 3.47 billion .
Indonesian chocolate ingredients maker PT Davomas Abadi through its subsidiary , International Finance Company Pte Ltd. , has issued more guaranteed senior secured notes worth US $ 88 million .
The notes follow the US $ 150 million notes issued at coupon of 11 percent and due in 2011 , Davomas Abadi President Director Anthonius Azer Unawekla said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Tuesday .
He said the additional notes would not be offered to investors considered public bidders .
Local rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has assigned an idBBB rating to Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional BTPN with stable outlook .
The rating showed the bank's strong profitability , good capitalization and reliable assets , Pefindo analyst Hendro Utomo said in a statement on Friday .
However , the rating was weakened by the high risk of funding concentration , tight liquidity indicators and limited growth of its core business , he said .
Established in 1958 under the name of Bank Pegawai Pensiunan Military BAPEMIL , the bank was mainly engaged in receiving savings from and channeling credits to retired servicemen .
In 1986 , the bank changed its name to Bank Tabungan Pensiun Nasional BTPN and became a commercial bank in 1993 .
As of March 31 , 2007 , the bank was 28.39 percent owned by PT Pengelola Aset PPA , 22.61 percent by PT Recapital Advisors , 20 percent by Fuad Hasan Masyhur , 19 percent by PT Danatama Makmur and 10 percent by PT Bakrie Capital Indonesia .
The government is optimistic its full-year inflation rate target for 2007 of 6.3 percent will be achieved after concluding it has succeeded in securing distribution of basic necessaries , a minister said .
I am optimistic inflation will reach the target set in the 2007 state budget , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boediono said here Friday .
He said the government was making every effort to ensure the smooth distribution of basic necessaries ahead of the Lebaran post-fasting month festivities to keep inflation under control .
Inflation is the balance between the flows of money and goods .
We will secure the flow of goods particularly basic commodities in the months ahead .
It seems that we will be able to secure the flow of goods , he said .
Meanwhile , Deputy Bank Indonesia Governor Hartadi said the inflation rate was projected to fall this month .
The results of various surveys show signs of easing inflation in September compared to August .
The August inflation figure was exceptional , It was beyond what all parties had forecast , including Bank Indonesia .
Judging by the drop in the prices of several goods this week the inflation rate will fall this month , he said .
But the prices of some goods in the first week of September fell , I don't know their prices in the ensuing weeks as the fasting month of Ramadhan started just two days ago .
We saw the prices of rice fell on the average , he said .
The Central Bureau of Statistics BPS forecast the inflation rate in September would be below 1 percent .
I don't know this month's inflation because we still have two weeks away .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said there will be room for the central bank's key rate to go down if the US Federal Reserve cuts its rate at its meeting on Tuesday .
If the Fed Fund rate drops by 25-50 basis points tomorrow , we will certainly have room to lower the key rate .
But we must also take into account domestic conditions , he said here Monday .
In addition , he said , Bank Indonesia would also consider international financial conditions to decide whether or not to cut the key rate , locally known as BI Rate .
On Sept 6 , the central bank decided to keep the key rate at 8.25 percent for the third month in a row while still carefully considering the impact of the subprime mortgage turmoil despite the country's improving macro economic conditions and the rupiah's stable exchange rate .
The Federal Open Market Committee FOMC is set to convene a meeting on Tuesday to decide its interest rate policy and US economic projections .
Some analysts believe the Fed will lower its interest rate at the meeting as part of monetary policies to help resolve the subprime mortgage turmoil in the US .
The much-anticipated drop in the Fed Fund rate is expected to encourage banks to lower their already high lending rates .
To ease the impact of the subprime mortgage crisis , the Fed had cut its dicount rate to 4.75 percent from 5.25 percent previously to strengthen the banking industry's liquidity .
The World Bank has suggested that the Indonesian government and the House of Representatives DPR amend the newly-enacted law on limited liability companies , particularly regarding clauses on minimum capital requirements MCR .
I think the Doing Business Report published by IFC International Finance Corporation and the World Bank will explain what the government can do to increase the ease of doing business in Indonesia .
And one of the indicators is minimum capital requirements .
Many other countries in this region have zero minimum capital requirements .
So , the question is that must Indonesia increase minimum capital requirements for the establishment of companies ? Hans Shrader , IFC advisory services general manager , said here Wednesday .
The IFC is the World Bank's private investment arm .
It was difficult to revise the implementation regulation of Law No.40 / 2007 on limited liability companies given the requirement for a minimum core capital of Rp50 million stipulated in the law , he said .
I think amending the minimum capital requirement from the current position to zero level is the step that must be taken , he said .
Based on the Doing Business 2008 Report published by the IFC , Indonesia improved its ' easiness of doing business' index worldwide .
In the report , Indonesia ranks 123 out of the 178 countries surveyed .
World Bank country director for Indonesia Joachim von Amsberg said the bank would no longer give concessional loans to Indonesia because it had become a middle-income country .
Indonesia has undergone a change in terms of the loans it receives from the World Bank , namely from International Development Assistance IDA schemed loans such as subsidies and grants to IBRD schemed loans .
This reflects the country's success in managing its economy .
Indonesia is now considered to be a mature middle-income country , he said .
He said , however , seeking World Bank loans was still more advantageous than issuing international bonds .
There are a lot of advantages Indonesia can enjoy by seeking loans from the bank .
We will always make the loans more favorable for Indonesia .
The interest of our products is 50 basis points above Libor which always fluctuates but is still lower than market interests .
If Indonesia seeks loans in the international market their interest is between 100 and 200 basis points above Libor .
The World Bank also offers loans with longer grace periods , he said .
He said the World Bank is currently trying to make its products more attractive for its members including trying to lower their interest from the present level .
Indonesia's outstanding debts to the bank from 1967 to 2006 reached US $ 7.424 billion under the IBRD scheme and US $ 1.323 billion under the IDA scheme .
Bank Syariah Mandiri BSM expects its net profit this year to reach Rp113 billion revising its earlier target of only Rp75 billion .
Until August this year its net profit has reached Rp78 billion while there are still five months left to meet the target , its president director , Yuslam Fauzi , said here on Wednesday .
He said the target would be met with support from distribution of financing that was expected to reach Rp10.5 trillion by the end of this year .
The financing has already reached Rp9.2 trillion , he said .
He said the financing target was supported by non-corporate financing namely financing below Rp 10 billion as well as corporate financing which was above Rp10 billion .
He said the ratio between non-corporate and corporate financing was fifty-fifty .
He declined to tell further about the syndication saying I will tell you further about it later .
He said he hoped by the end of this year there would be additional capital incoming from shareholders reaching up to rp100 billion , it is hoped the addition will increase the capital adequacy ratio and strengthen distribution of financing to reach up to Rp1 trillion , he said .
The BSM , according to him , will maintain the CAR at 12 percent while its present ratio is 14.1 percent .
With the CAR in its present position , there is still room for expansion which will be wider following the Rp100 billion addition .
The addition of the paid-up capital , he said , would strengthen the BSM's capital currently reaching Rp775 billion in core capital and Rp1.049 trillion in total capital .
Yuslam said he was now considering syndication with three other shariah banks to finance projects worth more than Rp1 trillion .
BSM under the syndication will take a quarter of the financing , he said .
Bank BCA is preparing Rp 15.82 trillion in cash on the occasion of this year's post-fasting celebrations , to be distributed to the bank's ATM machines .
Rp 9.5 trillion will be made available to Jakarta , Bogor , Depok , Tangerang , and Bekasi , and the rest for other regions , vice president director of BCA Jahja Setiaatmadja said in Jakarta on Wednesday .
He said that the bank's ATM facilities will remain open even during holidays , but the bank's branch offices will be closed from October 12 through 14 .
In the meantime , Bank BNI is preparing Rp 3.3. trillion in cash for a week starting from the Idul Fitria in anticipation of increased cash needs of the public .
For a month we are preparing Rp9,7 trillion in cash , Head of BNI's operational division Hemawati said .
State Minister for National Development Planning / Head of the National Development Planning Agency Paskah Suzeta said the government still hoped the World Bank would continue providing Indonesia with concessional loans under the International Development Association scheme , although Indonesia had managed to become a middle-income country .
Paskah said in Jakarta on Wednesday that Indonesia was still in need of concessional loans to cover its 2007 budget deficit which had reached 1.54 percent of the country's GDP , or Rp58.285 trillion , besides issuing state bonds .
Paskah also hoped the World Bank would even increase the concessional loans .
He also said that Indonesia will also try to secure low-interest loans from the Asian Development Bank and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation .
In the meantime , World Bank Country Director for Indonesia Joachim von Amsberg said the bank had stopped providing concessional loans to Indonesia since the country had managed to develop into a middle-income country .
Indonesia , which has been receiving concessional loans from IDA International Development Association in the form of subsidies and grants , now received loans as a medium-income country from the IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development .
This is a reflection of Indonesia's success in the management of its economy .
Indonesia is now regarded as a mature middle-income country , Joachim said in Jakarta Wednesday .
Nevertheless , he added , a World Bank loan is more favorable to Indonesia compared to the issuance of international bonds .
Indonesia would derive many advantages from World Bank loans , and we are also trying to make them increasingly advantageous to Indonesia .
The interest rate of our products is 50 basis points above the fluctuating LIBOR , but still lower than market interest rates .
If Indonesia goes to the international market , it will find that interest rates ranged from 100 to 200 basis points above LIBOR .
The World Bank also offers longer borrowing and grace periods , Joachim said .
He said the World Bank is currently trying to make its products increasingly interesting to its members , including the possibility of the lowering of its loan interest rate .
Indonesia's outstanding World Bank loans under the IBRD scheme in the 1967-2006 period had reached 7.424 billion US dollars , and under the IDA scheme 1.323 billion US dollars .
Germany has converted an Indonesian debt of Euro 50 million into a health program fund dubbed Debt2Health Program to fight three deadly diseases , a report said .
Indonesian Ambassador to Germany Makmur Widodo , German Development Minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul and Global Fund Executive Director Michel Kazatchkine signed the debt swap in Berlin on September 26 in conjunction with the opening of Global Fund donors' conference , the Global Fund said in a statement made available here Thursday .
The debt conversion required Indonesia to invest half of the debt value in various national health projects to combat AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria through the Debt2Health Program .
The program would strengthen Indonesia's health system as well as allow Germany to fulfill its commitment to fighting AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria , Minister Wieczorek-Zeul was quoted as saying .
Publicly-listed oil drilling company PT ATPK Resources will manage old oil wells in Cepu district in Central Java through its subsidiary , PT ATPK Energy Resources , and a local firm , PT Anugrah Global Esa , a spokesperson said .
The location of the old wells is near ExxonMobil's oil field in Bendoharjo village , Gabus sub district , Central Java , ATPK Resources' Corporate Secretary Andreas Andy told the Jakarta Stock Exchange JSX here Friday .
The project to re-operate the old wells in Gabus sub district in Cepu district would eventually be developed into a joint operation program between PT ATPK Resources and state oil and gas firm PT Pertamina .
After PT ATPK had obtained the joint operation permit , PT ATPK Energy Resources would conduct exploration deep down in the old oil wells .
Andreas said it was hoped the old wells would initially produce 50 barrels per day but the output would later be gradually increased to 2,000 barrels per day .
ATPK would get 70 percent of the profit and PT Anugrah Global Esa 30 percent , Andreas said .
Indonesia's balance of payments in the second quarter of 2007 recorded a surplus of US $ 3.6 billion compared to US $ 3.4 billion in the same period last year , Bank Indonesia said .
Current accounts and capital and financial accounts contributed to the surplus , the central bank said in a press statement issued on Friday .
In the second quarter of 2007 current accounts enjoyed a surplus of about US $ 2.6 billion against US $ 1.7 billion in the same period last year , while capital and financial accounts recorded a surplus of US $ 2.1 billion against US $ 25 million , it said .
The central bank projected the balance of payments in 2007 to see a surplus of an estimated US $ 11.5 billion with current accounts expected to record a surplus of US $ 10.8 billion or 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. Last year , current accounts recorded a surplus of US $ 9.9 billion .
The promising prospects for current accounts were particularly fueled by the strong growth of the country's non-oil / non-gas exports thanks to the improving global economy and rising prices of export commodities , it said .
Meanwhile , capital and financial accounts in 2007 were expected to record a surplus of US $ 2.6 billion , about the same as last year , it said .
The surplus in capital and financial accounts reached a record high of US $ 4.4 billion in the first half of 2007 but the figure was expected to fall in the second semester due to a decline in portfolio investment in the aftermath of the subprime mortage turmoil in the US .
Given the surplus in the country's balance of payments , foreign exchange reserves were expected to increase to US $ 54.4 billion at the end of 2007 from US $ 42.6 billion a year earlier .
Among the main components of the current accounts that enjoyed a surplus in the second quarter of 2007 were the balance of non-oil / non-gas trade , the balance of gas trade , and the balance of current transfers .
The balance of non-oil / non-gas trade in the second quarter of 2007 saw a surplus of US $ 7 billion compared to US $ 5.7 billion a year earlier .
The Indonesian central bank's decision to keep its key rate at 8.25 percent for the third month in a row is expected to strengthen the rupiah , a banker said .
The stable BI rate has led to a very large spread between the rupiah and dollar interest rates , reaching about 3.50 percent 8.25-4.75 percent , Kostaman Thayib , banking retail director of privately-run Bank Mega , said on Tuesday .
The very large spread had prompted foreign investors to invest in the domestic financial market such as Indonesian retail bonds ORI , he said .
They were optimistic about the prospects for the Indonesian economy given the government's active role in spurring the infrastructure sector's growth and the banking industry's active part in channeling credits , he said .
Market players who still held the rupiah were worried about buying the dollar due to imminent economic recession in the US , he said .
Even the US Federal Reserve itself would further lower its interest rate to boost the economy , defying inflationary pressure , he said .
The BI Rate was kept unchanged as the inflation rate in October was expected to be higher than in the previous month , he said .
After all , the central bank still had the chance to lower the benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 8 percent in November if the inflation rate that month fell , he said .
November's inflation rate was expected to fall due to a drop in public spending after the posting-fasting month Lebaran festivities , he said .
Publicly-listed pharmaceutical company PT Kalbe Farma Tbk KLBF invested another US $ 1 million in its Singapore-based subsidiary , Kalbe International Pte. Ltd. KI , on October 4 .
The investment brings KLBF's paid-up capital in KI to US $ 2,000,001 , KLBF Corporate Secretary Justian Sumardi said in a statement to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here on Tuesday .
Established on June 11 , 2007 , KI which is engaged in medicine trade is fully owned by KLBF .
PT Indah Kiat Pulp & Paper Tbk is planning to import pulp from Finland and New Zealand following a polemic between the Indonesian police and the Forestry Ministry over illegal logging .
We predict our pulp stocks will be enough until late October .
Therefore , we will import pulp from Finland and New Zealand , the company's vice chief commissioner , G Sulistiyanto , said on Wednesday .
He said the company did not use illegal wood to produce pulp .
The natural wood we use to produce pulp only accounts for 20 percent of the total needs , and the rest originates from timber estate .
Because of pulp difficulties , the company had laid off hundreds of its workers , he said .
PT Indah Kiat's pulp need this year is estimated at 4.6 million tons , he said .
Director General of Customs and Excise Anwar Suprijadi has expressed optimism that the country will achieve the import duty receipts target of Rp13 trillion and the excise receipt target of Rp42 trillion for 2007 .
Excise receipts until early October reached 80 percent of the target , surpassing our projected 75 percent .
This is better than what we achieved until the same period last yaer , he said here Wednesday .
The higher-than-expected excise revenue were attributable to at least four factors , namely good law enforcement , an increase in domestic production , better inspection of goods , and employees' integrity , he said .
As an institution functioning as trade facilitator , community protector and law enforcer , the Directorate General of Customs and Excise has a sustainable commitment to make every effort to make internal improvements , he said .
The government has finally agreed to restructurize non-performing loans amounting to Rp17.9 trillion of 1,470,692 micro , small and medium enterprises UMKM in four state banks , Cooperatives and UMKM Minister Suryadharma Ali said here Tuesday .
The policy is applied to UMKM with NPLs valued at less than five billion rupiahs , the minister said after attending a meeting chaired by Vice President Jusuf Kalla .
The four banks are PT Bank Negara Indonesia Tbk BNI , PT Bank Mandiri Tbk , PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia Tbk BRI and PT Bank Tabungan Negara Tbk BTN .
Meanwhile , BRI director Sofyan Bashir said that after all the policy on hair cuts had been adjusted to existing banking regulations .
PT Bank Internasional Indonesia Tbk BII offers Fixed Rate Program within five-year loan term for BII's mortgage loan dubbed KPR Ekspres and multi purpose loan Rumah Maxima , a spokesperson said .
For customers who transfer their mortgage loan or multi purpose loan facilities to BII take over is charged with 12.98 % p.a. of interest rate for five years and will be free from provision , administration and appraisal fees .
The Fixed Rate Program which is the first in Indonesia will answer customers' need to pay mortgage loan and multi purpose loan with a fixed interest rate within certain period of time , Rudy said .
Therefore customer should not be influenced by the fluctuation of interest rate in the market , he said .
The program is aimed at competing with other banks in mortgage loan and multi purpose loan segment .
The heads of agreement was signed in Perth , Australia , during the Asia Pacific Economic Conference by Antam's President Director , D. Aditya Sumanagara and BHP Billiton Stainless Steel Materials President , Jimmy Wilson .
The alliance will investigate development of pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical processing routes for the Buli deposit on the island and other ore bodies , it said .
This move is in line with Antam's strategy to move into higher technology and downstream metals processing activities .
This strategic alliance with BHP Billiton is also expected to mitigate the cost and risk of developing mineral deposits .
The alliance would immediately commence a project study to develop hydrometallurgical and pyrometallurgical processing technologies on Halmahera Island , Sumanagara said .
The project study represented a significant opportunity to jointly develop a world class nickel resource with considerable long term benefits to Indonesia .
Antam and BHP Billiton expect the joint venture agreement will be completed by end of 2007 .
The government has named 14 banks and four stock companies as primary dealers in the issuance of state treasury notes scheduled for April , a Finance Minister official said .
The number has been shortlisted from 19 to 18 consisting of 14 banks and four stock companies .
The banks include all major banks , including overseas banks , the ministry's director general of debt management Rahmat Waluyanto said on Tuesday .
However , he stopped short of mentioning the names of the banks and stock companies .
I will announce them in two to three days because their letter of appointment was signed only yesterday Monday , he said .
The appointment was based on their financial capacity , information technology and experience in trading bonds , such as state bonds , he said .
Publicly-listed oil and gas drilling company PT Energi Mega Persada ENRG has already stopped a drilling operation in Banjarpanji-1 BJP-1 and BJP-2 oil fields in Porong area in Sidoardjo district , East Java , a statement said .
ENRG terminated the drilling operation at 3,594 feet and 1,170 feet in BJP-1 and BJP-2 fields respectively , ENRG director Faiz Shahab said in the weekly report which was conveyed to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Monday .
Drilling equipment in BJP-1 field has already dispersed on January 23 and BJP-2 on Jan 26 .
Drilling activity in BJP-1 and BJP-2 began in the second week and the third week of September 2006 respectively , the statement said .
The drilling operation was done to stop hot mudflow from PT Lapindo Brantas exploration location in Renokenongo village in Porong area , Sidoarjo , East Java Province , the incessant hot mud came for the first time on May 29 , 2006 .
The disaster has affected economic activities in East Java as many residential areas , paddy fields , plantations , schools , offices and industrial zones in three subdistricts have been inundated by the mudflow for almost one year .
The government is to set up an energy food company called PT Pangan Energi Nusantara as a joint venture among nine state-owned companies operating in the agricultural sector in an effort to increase domestic rice production and raise farmers'income , a minister said .
We are seriously studying the possibility of setting up PT Pangan Energi Nusantara as a subsidiary of nine state-owned companies .
The establishment of the company is intended to help the government's program to raise farmers' income and increase domestic rice production by combining organizational and technological approaches , State Minister for State Enterprises Sugiharto said here Monday .
According to the minister , the planned company would not be a substitute for or a rival to the State Logistics Agency Bulog as Bulog would provide assistance for PT Pangan Energi Nusantara's operations .
Besides Bulog , eight other state companies were expected to join the consortium sponsoring the planned company , namely PT Sang Hyang Sri dealing with food , PT Pupuk Sriwijaya fertilizer , PT Pupuk Kaltim fertilizer , PT Pupuk Kujang fertilizer , PT Petrokimia Gresik petrochemicals , PT Pertani food , Perum Jasa Tirta I water and Perum Jasa Tirta II water .
We are completing the plan , We have asked the nine state companies to incorporate the plan in their respective 2007 work plans and company budgets , the minister said .
He said with the nine state companies joining the consortium , the relevant parties could be coordinated to enable farmers to increase rice production .
In every 10,000 hectares , a company belonging to farmers could likely be built so that there is organizational and technological certainty .
With hybrid technology , average production could be increased from four tons per hectare to 10 tons per hectare , he said .
The plan was expected to be materialized in stages and the farmers would get added value not only from dried unhulled rice but also from other derivative products and greater volume of rice .
Commercially , the planned project is very feasible as rice production will increase so that it can help meet the government's target of producing two million more tons of rice or about 3.5 million tons of dried unhulled rice between 2007 and 2008 , the minister said .
He said Bulog would be involved in the establishment of the company as it had warehouses and was able to become a standby buyer besides having logistics management to improve prices .
With the expected additional two million tons of rice , hopefully , we can be self-sufficient in rice if harvests do not fail , he said .
The exchange rate of the rupiah at the Jakarta Inter-Bank Spot Market on Monday afternoon strengthened by 12 points to Rp9.068 / Rp9,070 against the US dollar compared to Rp9,80 / Rp9,085 at the closing session late last week as the release of the green back still continued .
Speculations of the release of the US dollars still continue due to the strengthening of gold prices on the global market , foreign exchange analyst of publicly listed PT Himpunan Saudara , Yusuf , said here Monday .
According to Yusuf , the US dollar also suffered by worries about the superpower's nuclear program prompting foreign agents to release the US currency .
The worries had even prompted some western countries to hold a meeting to discuss Iran's nuclear program , he said .
Local agents are still speculating and bought the rupiah causing the Indonesian currency to appreciate , he added .
The strengthening of the rupiah was supported by the regional market due to the weakening the US dollar against the Japanese yen and the euro , so that the Indonesian currency appreciated by more than 10 points against the green back , he said .
If the support continues and caused the rupiah exchange rate to exceed Rp9,050 against the US dollar , Bank Indonesia would likely enter the market to stop a further increase , he said .
He pointed out that in the long run , the rupiah exchange rate was predicted to stay between Rp9,000 and Rp9,100 against the US dollar as it would not give a positive impact on exporters and importers , he said .
Bank Indonesia is now playing an important role in the money market as it has strong reserves amounting to US $ 43 billion .
The Directorate General of Customs managed to uncover the smuggling of textile in 16 containers from China in Bandung that had caused the state to suffer a loss of Rp4 billion .
Based on an audit conducted by the Bandung Customs Office , it was known that PT PRG which received the facility in the bonded zone , have allegedly misused the facility , Head of the Bandung Customs Office Jody Kusmendro told the press here on Thursday .
He added that the company used the duty-free import facility to import textile of other commodities and later gave it to the real owner. However , the textile was never returned to PT PRG but sold by the real owner .
He added that the office had blocked the customs activity of PT PEG and seized the rest of the containers , namely 15 containers in West Java and one in Tanjung Priok , Jakarta .
He said the real owner of the containers had to pay an official import duty of Rp250 million for each container .
He said the act was committed since October last year and the office used the old Customs Law while the new law came into effect ony in November last year .
Director General of Customs Anwar Suprijadi , meanwhile said the office was now conducting an inspection of the facility of the bonded zone which had been granted to 762 importers .
Head of the Indonesian Textile Assosciation API Benny Sutrisno predited that the smuggled textile might be worth Rp6.05 billion .
He added that out of the US $ 1.6 billion textile imported in 2006 , only US $ 300 million was legal .
On the occasion , Benny also called on the government to raise the fine imposed on the smugglers and to review the import facility granted to some importers .
Indonesia's private oil and gas firm PT Energi Mega Persada ENRG has signed a binding final agreement with Mitsubishi Corporation and Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. Ltd Japex , an official said .
The move was made by issuing share of ENRG's subsidiary namely Energi Mega Pratama Inc EMPI last March 6 , ENRG director Faiz Shahab told the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ here Friday .
The issuance of the EMPI shares is a follow-up to Head of Agreement HoA which was signed last week , he said .
The binding final agreement specifies that Mitsubishi and Japex will control 50 percent working contract in Kangean PSC block cumulatively and finance parts of major projects at Kangean block .
The transaction will generate fund totaling US $ 360 million in the form of the issuance of EMPI new shares .
The transaction which involves the taking over of EMPI new shares issued by Mitsubishi and Japex will reduce ENRG ownership in EMPI to 50 percent , he said .
The transaction , Faiz said is a material one which must be approved by the majority of ENGR shareholders who will hold a shareholders' meeting next April .
The transaction reflects ENRG strategy which is focusing on vital growth , gas commercialization and operational superiority which can give a special value to shareholders , he said .
Late February Kangean PSC produced 39 MMscfd gas , 250 barrels of condensate and 3800 barrels of oil per day .
Other ENRG oil field in Sepanjang block produced 66,000 barrels of oils early this month .
Turkey's Kordsa Global , the world's largest maker of industrial yarn and nylon for car tires , controlled 57.4 percent of the stake in PT Branta Mulia through a tender which was carried out last February 28 , a spokesperson said .
The number of Brantas Mulia shares which have been taken over by Kordsa Global reached 258,282,682 , or 57.40 percent out the total number of shares , corporate secretary Vonny Juwono told the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ here Friday .
The number of Brantas Mulia shares which are promoted during the tender reached 27,460,420 , or 6.1 percent and had a transaction value of Rp1,990 per share , or Rp54.646 billion .
Thailand's new finance minister said Friday he would keep controversial currency rules , dashing market speculation that the government would soon lift the measures aimed at curbing the Thai baht's rise .
The capital rules , imposed by the army-backed government in December , required 30 percent of all incoming investment to be held by financial institutions for up to one year , sparking a massive stock sell-off .
Many exemptions have since been made to the controls but the general policy remains at least in theory .
The appointment of Chalongphob Sussangkarn as the new finance minister earlier this week raised hopes that the government would end the stringent rules as the former World Bank economist had previously come out against them .
But Chalongphob said the capital rules were needed to control the Thai unit , which has risen nearly 12 percent against the dollar over the past year .
Regarding the 30-percent reserve rules , I personally think that Thailand still needs measures to manage capital flows in and out of the country , he told reporters .
At the moment , appropriate measures to replace the capital rules have not been found and any policy changes must be made appropriately and gradually to minimise impacts on the stock market , he said .
When the government introduced the capital measures in December , investors panicked , causing the biggest one-day drop in the Thai stock market with losses worth a staggering 23 billion dollars .
The central bank chief , Tarisa Watanagase , said in a newspaper interview Thursday that she was waiting for the right time to completely lift the currency controls .
Bank Indonsia BI Deputy Governor Aslim Tadjuddin said here on Friday the exchange rate of the country's currency , the rupiah , would tend to strengthen in the days ahead because the country's macro-economic fundamentals were stable .
The rupiah will tend to strengthen in the future and BI will continue to maintain the rate at between Rp8,000 and Rp9,400 against the US dollar , he said .
He said BI would maintain the present rate so that it would not fluctuate too widely because the rate was already good enough to be acceptable to the business community , especially exporters and importers .
The recent drop in the exchange rate of the Thai baht would not affect the rupiah because the depreciation is still within expected limits , he said .
Regarding the inflation rate , Aslim said it would still be the same as in February .
I think it will be the same as or at least not be below the figure in February because there was a recent hike in the rice price , he said .
He said the government had already taken all measures to limit the hike such as through rice imports and market operations so that the hike in the rice price this month would not affect inflation .
Hopefully , in March inflation will be lower and the target of six plus and minus one percent inflation will be met , he said .
He said the global crisis had already diminished and some stocks had returned to their normal position .
There was indeed a reserve carry trade in Japanese yen but it is already over now , he said .
Regarding limitation of accumulation of banking funds in Bank Indonesia Certificates SBI Taslim said that it was not an important issue .
What is important is how to make the real sector move because if the sector moves banks would supply it with credits and automatically funds in the SBI will drop , he said .
On the target of growth , he said bank credits were needed to meet it .
What is important now is creating a conducive investment atmosphere and eradicate obstacles that hinder real sector development not limiting funds in SBI , he said .
The government is estimating that Indonesia's economic growth in 2008 will continue to be around 6.6 percent as many quarters have projected , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said .
This is still an initial exercise .
We hope we can see the range of economic growth in 2008 after we see the realization of economic growth in 2007 which is projected at 6.3 percent , the minister said after attending a meeting at the presidential office here on Tuesday .
The minister said many circles doubted the government's target could be achieved but in her view it was better to see first how economic growth developed in the first semester of 2007 .
We want a higher economic growth but we need to be realistic as well .
Therefore , we will set our temporary target at 6.6 percent for 2008 , she said .
She said the government had set its 2007 economic growth target at 6.3 in but many circles such as eonomic observers , the World Bank , Asian Development Bank , International Monetary Fund , Citibank and Deusthe Bank had set it at a range of 5.5 to 6.5 percent .
My estimate is that economic growth in 2007 will be between 5.9 percent and 6 percent , she said .
National Development Planning Minister Paskah Suzetta said on Tuesday the deficit in the 2007 state budget would increase if the government had to provide bailout funds to solve the social problems of people who fall victim to the Lapindo mudflow disaster in Sidoarjo , East Java .
But if the DPR House of Representatives eventually agrees to ask the government to allocate state budget funds for the Lapindo case , we will do it , he said after a cabinet session at the presidential office here .
Paskah , who is also chief of the National Development Planning Agency Bappenas , said the government was still discussing the material losses caused by the Lapindo mudflow disaster with the House .
If the bailout was agreed upon by the House and the government , it would be included in the revised state budget , he said .
Let's wait for the results of the discussion .
Where budget allocation , be it bailout or else , is concerned , it must first be discussed through the mechanism for state budget revisions , he said .
He said there was no budget allocation for the purpose in the 2007 state budget .
We will try to ensure that the deficit in the 2007 state budget will be less than 2 percent of gross domestic product , he said .
The Surabaya Stock Exchange BES will delist PT Makindo's stock beginning next April 2 and remove all of Makindo's corporate files from all of BES information media , a spokesperson said .
If PT Makindo wants to relist its stock at the BES bourse in the future , the Surabaya Stock Exchange would treat it as a new listing , BES Listing division head Umi Kalsum said here Wednesday .
Accordingly , BES would be free from every obligation , demand and lawsuit other parties may file against PT Makindo following the delisting , she said .
The directorate general of taxes will make a list of state officials in the 4th to the 1st echelons who have complied or not complied with existing tax regulations , a spokesman said here Wednesday .
Every civil servant must abide by tax regulations .
We will make a list to find out whether or not state officials already have a taxpayer's number NPWP , Director General for Taxes Darmin Nasution said after accompanying President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in filling out income tax forms at the Central Tax Office .
Darmin said tax evadera will face penalties .
We will inform the minister concerned if his or her subordinates evade taxes and the president if a minister evades taxes , he said .
Concerned people and agencies have the chance until May 31 to inform the directorate general on any state official who evades tax , Darmin said .
The decision to give more chances for state officials to pay tax was made in order to increase state income from the taxation sector , he said .
Cellular telephone operator PT Mobile-8 FREN will form a merger with its subsidiaries PT Metro Selular Nusantara Metrosel , PT Komunikasi Selular Indonesia Komselindo and PT Telekomindo Selular Raya Telesera , a report said .
Publicly listed company PT Mobile-8 Telecom will turn into a surviving entity in the merger along with Metrosel , Komselindo and Telesera , FREN said here Wednesday .
The merger will hopefully build a synergy between FREN and the three CDMA-based cellular telecommunications operators to increase their operational coverage .
Meanwhile , a FREN shareholders extraordinary meeting will decide on the proposed merger on May 8 , 2007 .
FREN's share price dropped from Rp265 to Rp260 at the Jakarta Stock Exchange on Tuesday .
Publicly listed charter airline company PT Indonesia Air Transport IATA will have another new long-term contract by operating an ATR42-300 aircraft , an official said , the new contract US $ 1.95 million will come into effect in May 2007 , IATA corporate secretary Krisman Tarigan told the Jakarta Stock Exchange here Wednesday .
IATA has secured a second contract from PT Milonlha Nuansa Ayu which has ordered for five charter planes with a total investment of $ 15 million , he said .
However , he did not name the period of the second contract from Milonlha Nuansa Ayu firm .
Publicly-listed cement maker PT Indocement Tunggal Perkasa Tbk announced on Thursday its net profit in 2006 fell by 19.86 percent to Rp592.80 billion from a year earlier .
The drop was mainly caused by a rise in its operating costs and miscellaneous expenses as net income rose to Rp6.325 trillion in 2006 from Rp5.592 trillion the year before , according to the company's consolidated financial statement .
Gross profit went up to Rp2.148 trillion from Rp2.020 trillion , However , operational expenses rose to Rp1.080 trillion from Rp805.94 trillion , causing perational profit to fall to Rp1.068 trillion from Rp1.214 trillion
On the other hand , net miscellaneous expenses jumped to Rp215.16 billion from Rp154.19 billion due to a surge in interest expenses , causing net profit to fall , As a result , earning per share fell to Rp161.03 from Rp200.93 .
Indonesian insurance company AAJI is collaborating with two international agencies , namely LOMA and LIMRA , to set up a professional insurance agency , a spokesperson said .
We want to have competent life insurance agents who have international disciplines , AAJI chairwoman Evelina Pietruschka said here Thursday .
LIMRA International is a member-owned organization , dedicated to meeting the marketing information needs of companies involved in marketing annuity , disability , health , life , mutual fund , and retirement savings products .
Meanwhile , AAJI executive director Eddy K A Berutu said the number of national life insurance agents was recorded at about 125,000 as of December 2006 .
Of the total , 5,220 were AAJI's bancassurance agents who have been certified .
Eddy said the certification program for bancassurance agents began in February last year .
Quoting data , Eddy said , life insurance premium income grew by 25 percent to Rp18.9 trillion as of the 3rd quarter of last year from a year earlier .
Data on life insurance business in 2006 show 42 companies were engaged in the life insurance sector in the country .
The rupiah's exchange rate against the US dollar on the Jakarta Inter-bank Spot Market improved to 9,100 / 9,105 on Thursday afternoon from 9,130 / 9,135 per dollar the day before , a gain by 30 points , an observer said .
Money market observer Farial Anwar said here Thursday the rupiah should have passed the psychological level of 9,100 per US dollar but the Indonesian unit had failed to do so as Bank Indonesia the central bank was reluctant to make the rupiah stay lower than 9,100 against the US currency .
He said the rupiah had strengthened due to different positive factors , both internal and external .
Internally , there was high demand for domestic bonds and the Indonesian Retail Obligation ORI while externally , the US dollar weakened against a number of major Asian currencies due to foreign agents' worries about the US economy , he said .
Farial said the rupiah could not stay under the level of 9,000 per US dollar during 2007 because exporters did not want the Indonesian currency to be in that position .
If the rupiah stood in that position , it would not support exports , he said .
If the rupiah stood below 9,000 against the US dollar , the money to buy crude oil from foreign markets would decrease and the State Budget would not be valued at hundreds of trillions , he said .
We prefer the rupiah to stay below 9,000 per US dollar to reduce funds to buy crude oil , he said , adding that the rupiah was expected to stay at between 9,000 and 9,150 per US dollar .
Such a position was probable due to increasing worries about US economic growth after the US central bank the Fed said it was worried about the US inflation rate which was tending to increase , he said .
The US currency weakened against the euro after the Fed decided to maintain its overnight interest rate at 5.25 percent to 1.3412 compared to 1.3395 earlier or weakening by 0.15 percent while the US unit went up to 117.40 from 117.15 .
Integrated wood processing industry company PT Barito Pacific Timber BRPT just booked a net profit of Rp7.19 billion as of December 2006 or dived by 98.95 percent from Rp686.84 billion in December 2005 , a report said .
The annual financial report made available here Monday stated the net profit downturn was triggered by net selling drop following raw material shortage and unprecedented loss .
In 2006 the publicly-listed BRPT only booked a net selling of Rp451.03 billion , dwindling from Rp818.03 billion in the previous year .
It faced business damage of Rp191.82 billion last year , decreasing from Rp199.78 billion in the previous year .
Other net income also declined to Rp208.34 billion in 2006 from Rp554.94 billion in 2005 .
The company experienced bizarre loss of Rp1.73 billion in 2006 while it booked extraordinary profit of Rp455.68 billion in 2005 .
Earnings per share EPS of the BRPT drastically fell from Rp262 in 2005 to Rp3 in 2006 .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange JSE reported as of February 28 , 2007 Barito Pacific Timber company's share was 5 percent owned by Commerzbank SEA Tst. , 21 percent by Acct. Cli , 12 percent by Whistler Petrochemical Corporation , 9 percent by PT Barito Pacific Lumber and 9 percent by PT Tunggal Setia Pratama .
Private mining company PT ATPK Resources is planning to have a rights issue with a ratio of 1 to 1 and value of Rp500 per share and two free attached warrants , a spokesperson said .
ATPK corporate secretary Andreas Andy told the Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ here Monday about the implementation of the warrant conversion into a share with a nominal value of Rp200 per share in three years .
ATPK Resources also have a plan to carry out Employees Stock Option Plan ESOP concurring with the right issue and to sell its asset of plantations in Percut area , Sei Tuan subdistrict in North Sumatra through an auction , he said .
Andreas also said his company will approve a plan which was made by its subsidiary PT Modal Investasi Mineral to acquire shares of PT Wahana Bumi Mulia , a concession holder in nickel mining right in Tojo Una-Una district in Central Sulawesi .
Besides , ATPK Resources also has a scheme to approve a plan of PT Modal Investasi Mineral to sell 70 percent of total share of PT Mega Alama Sejahtera which hold a concession in a mining company in Berau area in East Kalimantan through an auction or other programs .
Publicly-listed cement maker PT Semen Gresik said on Monday it booked a net profit of Rp1.29 trillion in 2006 , up 29 percent from Rp1.00 trillion in the previous year .
The significant increase in net profit was the result of rising net sales from Rp7.53 trillion in 2005 to Rp8.73 trillion in 2006 and business profit increase from Rp1.54 trillion in 2005 to Rp1.78 trillion in 2006 , according to the company's annual consolidated financial report , a copy of which was made available here Monday .
The report also showed the company's earnings per share EPS rose to Rp2,184 in 2006 from Rp1,689 in 2005 .
The net profit growth exceeded PT Semen Gresik's estimated 20 percent hike in 2006 compared to that of 2005 .
Meanwhile , PT Semen Gresik president director Dwi Soetjipto said recently domestic demand for cement dropped by 2.4 percent in the January-August 2006 period .
Fortunately , the sluggish market returned to normal in September last year , he said .
The influx of competitive products in the main markets for PT Semen Gresik cement notably those in East Java did not bring significant impact on the sale of Semen Gresik's products , he said .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ stated that as of February 28 , 2007 Blue Valley Holdings controlled 24.9 percent of Semen Gresik's total shares while the Indonesian government 51.01 percent .
Toll road operator PT Citra Marga Nusaphala Persada CMNP stated that its net profit reached Rp121.52 billion in December 2006 , increasing by 49.99 percent from Rp81.02 billion in corresponding month of 2005 .
The net profit growth was supported by corporate net income which jumped from Rp437.64 billion in 2005 to Rp474.78 billion in 2006 and by business profit which rose to Rp209.53 billion in 2006 from Rp177.18 billion in 2005 , the CMNP annual consolidation financial report said here Monday .
The report also showed earnings per share EPS grew to Rp60.76 in 2006 from Rp40.51 in 2005 .
The net profit rise surpassed the publicly-listed CMNP's target of Rp10 billion in 2006 .
Last year's net profit recorded a 23.46 percent hike compared to that of Rp81 billion in 2005 .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ reported as of February 2007 , CMNP's shares were 9.01 percent owned by PT Bhakti Investama , 5.13 percent by Ievan Daniar Sumampow , 5.23 percent by Remington Gold Ltd and 7.2 percent by UBS AG Singapore S / A Heffernan .
In order to fuel its growth , the real sector will need not only low interest rates but also other incentives such as fiscal and tax policies , debureaucratization , law enforcement and elimination of smuggling and illegal transactions .
The real sector could be encouraged not only with Bank Indonesia BI's low interest rate but also with other incentives such as fiscal or tax policies , elimination of smuggling and illegal transactions , Economic observer Ryan Kiryanto said here on Monday .
He said that BI was expected to lower its rate BI rate by 25 percent basis points from nine percent to 8.75 percent as the inflation had shown a declining trend which in March was expected to reach 0.5 percent .
But it is not impossible that BI will maintain nine percent with a compensation that this week BI will continue to slacken banking rules in the field of credit provision , he said .
Ryan said in order to boost the growth of the real sector and to reduce the amount of banking funds invested with Bank Indonesia Certificates SBI , he would prefer if the BI rate was lowered by 25 basis points .
He said that the lowering of the BI rate had failed to drive the growth of the real sector because it was not followed by economic and fiscal policies .
So , BI , banks and the real sector should not be blamed .
The government should adopt breakthrough policies in order to boost the growth of the real sector , he added .
BI had previously said that the investment by banks of their funds in BI's monetary instrument , namely SBI , was something normal as banks were in surplus of liquidity , besides the constraints they faced in their intermediary roles .
BI Governor Burhanuddin Abdullah said the idle funds invested with the SBI reflected that banks faced problems with exercising their intermediary roles .
Publicly-listed PT Tempo Scan Pacific TSPC stated it booked a net profit of Rp272.58 billion as of December 2006 , a 8.16 percent decline from Rp296.82 billion in the corresponding period in 2005 .
TSPC's annual consolidation financial report made available here Monday showed the decline in the net profit was mainly caused by high operational cost though the proceeds of its net sales increased to Rp2.73 trillion in 2006 from Rp2.50 trillion in 2005 .
Meanwhile , the company's operational profit was recorded at Rp314.04 billion in 2006 , a decline compared to the Rp353.48 billion in 2005 .
The Jakarta Stock Exchange BEJ reported that as of last February 28 , 68.56 percent of PT Tempo Scan Pacific was controlled by Bogamulia Nagadi and the rest by the public .
PT Bumi Resources Tbk BUMI , Indonesia's biggest coal exporter , has agreed to sell 30 percent of its shares in a number of its subsidiaries operating in coal business namely PT Kaltim Prima Coal KPC and PT Arutmin Indonesia Arutmin to Tata Power Company Limited .
This cooperation will improve the company's future prospect to become a solid company and with Tata Power we are ready to expand to other areas of common interest , the president director of PT Bumi Resources , Ari Saptari Hudaya , said to newsmen here on Monday .
BUMI would receive around US $ 1.3 billion from the sale .
The company's director , Patrick Farrel , said there was a strong synergy between BUMI and Tata Power which is India's largest electricity private company and part of Tata Group .
BUMI commissioner Nalinkant Rathod meanwhile said KPC had made a long-term agreement with Tata Power to supply around 10 million tons of coal a year for a power plant in Trombay , India , and a number of future projects .
He said BUMI wished to use the proceeds for pay off its debts in a number of its subsidiaries and inter-company loans .
He said various coal companies belonging to BUMI if combined could be one of the world's biggest thermal coal exporters with access to around 7.2 billion metric tons from combined resources and natural reserves .
Jointly KPC and Arutmin produced more than 53 metric tons of coal in 2006 and more than 95 percent of the coal was exported , he said .
He said the purchase agreement would not disrupt domestic sale and export business arrangement within BUMI .
Bank Indonesia believes its new policy will promote intermediation for small and medium buinsesses , the bank's spokesman , Budi Mulya , said here on Tuesday .
Around 60 percent of the credits distributed so far were credits worth up to Rp10 billion .
Under the new policy it is hoped banks will be encouraged to provide loans to small and medium businesses thus speeding up credit distribution , he said .
Central bank deputy governor Mulyaman D Hadad meanwhile said the new regulation would highly benefit the development of small and medium businesses and hopefully would help promote the country's national economic development .
Regarding the implementation of the Uniform Classification System , he said it was very good to make banks apply the same standard on projects of the same type financed by other banks .
Economic observer Ryan Kiryanto hailed the new regulation and hoped it could help develop the real sector especially small and medium businesses .
Domestic banks have lowered their interest on time deposits following the Deposit Insurance Agency LPS's decision this week to cut its insurance rate to 9 percent from 9.25 percent previously .
Banks have taken precautionary measures in lowering their interest on rupiah-and dollar-denominated time deposits to prevent customers from withdrawing their deposits , spokesman of PT Bank Central Asia BCA Dwi Narini said on Saturday .
Before lowering the interest , the banks had made a series of studies to ensure that customers would continue to put their money in the banks , she said .
We are optimistic about the studies and precautionary measures yielding a positive fruit and consequently , customers will continue to put their money in banks , she said .
With the decline in interest on time deposits , banks would again lower their lending rates despite Bank Indonesia the central bank's decision to keep its benchmark interest rate BI Rate unchanged at 9 percent this month , she said .
It was expected the drop in lending rates would boost demand for banking loans , she said .
The banking industry had so far not been serious about extending credits to the public so that they could not play their intermediary role as expected , she said .
She said debtors hoped lending rates would range from 11 percent to 12 percent by the end of this year .
She said Bank Central Asia BCA had lowered interest on one-month to 12-month deposits amounting to Rp1 billion to an average of 6.5 percent , one-month deposits amounting to Rp1 billion to Rp5 billion to 7 percent and three-month deposits to 6.75 percent , the interest on six-month savings and 12-month savings is 6.5 percent .
The interest on one-month savings exceeding Rp5 billion is 7 percent , three-month savings 6.75 percent , and six-month to 12-month savings 6.5 percent .
Meanwhile , Permata Bank also lowered interest on one-month to three-month deposits by 0.50 percent to 6.50 percent .
The interest on six-month to 12-month deposits fell by 0.25 percent to 6.50 percent .
Interest on one-month to 12-month deposits in the US dollar remains at 2.5 percent .
The Supervisory Board of the Capital Market and Financial Insitutes Bapepam-LK has issued a policy to nurture securities companies as investment managers .
Bapepam-LK's chief Fuad Rahmany said in a press statement here on Saturday the policy was adopted to improve the condition of the mutual fund industry and its managers in the country and public confidence in them .
The net value of assets in the mutual fund industry in the past two years had been fluctuating after reaching around Rp114 trillion in February 2005 , by the end of 2005 it drastically dropped by 74.56 percent to only around Rp29.35 trillion , he said .
Fuad said the industry was now recovering and its value had risen by 107 percent to Rp59.58 trillion in March 2007 .
Until March 2007 , the number of effective mutual funds had reached 400 while investment managers comprised over 111 companies , he said .
He said 20 investment managers controlled 92.11 percent of the total net assests until March 2007 , 10 of them controlling 70 percent of the total assets .
Meanwhile 91 investment managers or more than 80 percent of investment managers controlled only around 7.9 percent of the total net assets .
He said this reality had prompted an evaluation of the industry and the condition of investment managers already licensed by Bapepam-LK .
To create a conducive situation to recover public trust in the industry professional investment managers with strong commitment are needed , he said .
Therefore , Bapepam-LK had decided to evaluate the performance of all investment managers that had received a license and conduct capacity building for the managers and improve their prudence .
Fuad said to maximize the effort Bapepam-LK would not issue a new license for securities companies also acting as investment managers .
However , he said , Bapepam-LK would continue processing applications that had been received before the decision was made in line with regulations .
The exploration costs spent by state-owned diversified mining company PT ANTAM in March increased to Rp11.2 billion , or an increase by 62 percent from that in the previous month which totalled Rp6.9 billion .
ANTAM's explorations were focused on nickel , gold and bauxite commodities , ANTAM corporate secretary Bimo Budi Satriyo said in his report to the Jakarta Stocks Exchange here on Monday .
He said that ANTAM fosuced its nickel exploration activities in Buli and Obi-Halmahera islands , Maluku and South East Sulawesi with a total cost amounting to Rp7 billion .
Gold exploration activities were carried out in Pongkor and Garut districts in West Java , Seblat district in Bengkulu , Gunung Patah Tiga area in Jambi , South East Sulawesi , Gunung Gember and Gunung Liman areas in East Java with a total cost of Rp3.2 billion .
He said that for bauxite explorations , the activities were focused on the Tayan area , Munggu Pasir , Toho and Mampawah areas in West Kalimantan with costs amounting to Rp1 billion .
Publicly-listed PT Lautan Luas LTLS through its subsidiary Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd. has teamed up with a local partner to set up a manufacturing company in China namely Hongze Jin Qilin Chemical Industry Ltd , a spokesperson said .
The newly-set up ammonia company has a deposit of 60 million RMB in capital money which 30 percent came from Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd. and 70 percent from Hongze Yinzhu Chemical Industry Group Co. Ltd. , corporate secretary Herman Santoso told Capital Market Supervisory Body-Financial Institution Bapepam-LK chairman here on Monday .
Through Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd. , LTLS also set up a new trading company in China Lautan Luas Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. with a total investment value of 2.8 million RMB .
Herman Santoso said China Lautan Luas Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. ' s total share has been owned by Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd. which deals with distributor , trading , services and export import sectors .
Insurance firm PT Asuransi Bina Dana Arta ABDA said on Monday it had sold its 16 million shares in reinsurance firm PT Maskapai Reansuransi Indonesia MREI to strengthen its cash flow .
ABDA sold the shares which accounted for 5.07 percent of MREI's shares for Rp125 each on April 4 , ABDA President Director Robert Sutanto said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange .
As of March 31 , 25.25 percent of MREI's shares was owned by ABN Amro Singapore , 19.69 percent by AJB Bumiputera , 5.07 percent by ABDA , 5.98 percent by Felicity Gold Corp. , 21.01 percent by Great Transamerican Strand Investment , 5.07 percent by Income Holding and the rest by the public .
Indonesian rating agency Pefindo has assigned an AA - rating stable outlook to Rp2 trillion worth of bonds publicly-listed cellular phone operator PT Excelcomindo Pratama Tbk plans to issue this year .
The rating reflected good telecommunication industry , stable market position amid increasing competition and majority shareholders' stronger profile , Pefindo analysts Salyadi Saputra and Hendro Utama said in a report to the Jakarta Stock Exchange here on Monday .
Yet the company's need for large amounts of funds to expand business and high exposure to foreign currency risks would slightly affect the rating , Pefindo said .
Since it started operatinng in October 1996 , Excelcomindo has managed to maintain its position as Indonesia's third biggest cellular operator after Telkomsel and Indosat , it said .
In 2006 , Excelcomindo was 59.63 percent owned by Indocel Holding Sdn Bhd , 16.81 percent by Khazanah Nasional Bhd , 15.97 percent by Radjawali Corpora , 7.38 percent by AIF and 0.21 percent by the public .
State coal mining company PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam Tbk said on Wednesday its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 jumped 184.58 percent to Rp198.75 billion from the same period of 2006 .
Net sales in the three months ended on March 31 rose to Rp957.44 billion from Rp723.76 billion in the same period a year earlier , the company's quarterly financial report shows .
The increase in net sales pushed up operational profit to Rp240.72 billion in the January-March 2007 period from Rp119.58 billion in the same period of last year and consequently , earning per share increased to Rp86 from Rp30 .
Bukit Asam posted a net profit of Rp485.60 billion last year , up by 4 percent from Rp467.06 billion a year earlier .
Bank Indonesia BI Deputy Governor Budi Rochadi said the national shipping industry had so far only received a relatively small amount of credits from banks , namely Rp7 trillion or just 0.8 percent of the overall amount of credits banks had issued .
The amount of bank credits extended to the shipping industry is still small because the banks still consider the industry a risky one , Budi Rochadi said when opening a workshop on national shipping financing at the BI building here on Wednesday .
He said national shipping companies were having no problem with their income because their cargo transport services were contract-based .
Budi said the amount of bank credits really needed by the national shipping industry was Rp27.6 trillion .
Where collateral is concerned , I don't think shipping companies will have problems in this matter because banks already have standing procedures , he said .
He said the central bank would serve as a bridge between banks and shipping companies so that the latter could get more financing while banks would feel more secure .
Budi also said up to now , almost 50 percent of domestic cargo shiiping was still controlled by foreign shipping firms while in the transportation of export and import goods , the share of national shipping companies was only about five percent .
He said until March 2007 , the number of ships operated by national shipping companies had increased by only 18.14 percent to 7,137 units with a carrying capacity of seven million gross tons .
Based on the roadmap for the implementation of Presidential Instruction No. 5 / 2005 , all foreign ships providing domestic cargo transportation services in Indonesia should be replaced with vessels flying the Indonesian flag .
He said of the 13 commodities which should be transported by ships flying the Indonesia flag by 2010 , four were still being transported by foreign vessels , namely coal , oil , liquids and farm produce .
In the meantime , Oentoro Surya , chairman of the Indonesia National Shipowners Association , said national shipping companies were constantly suffering opportunity losses because foreign companies dominated domestic commodity transportation which reached a value of US $ 17 billion .
Maxis Communications Bhd of Malaysia has increased its stake in cellular phone operator firm PT Natrindo Telepon Selular NTS to 95 percent by buying 44 percent of Lippo Group's shares in NTS , an NTS spokesperson said .
NTS head of corporate communications Anita Avianty confirmed here Wednesday Maxis's acquisition of the shares of Lippo Group which had a majority stake in NTS .
Celularnews.com on Tuesday reported the selling of 44 percent of Lippo Group's stake worth US $ 123.9 million in NTS to Kuala Lumpur-based Maxis .
Meanwhile , Communication and Information Minister Sofyan Djalil said NTS had informed his office of the sale , the Maxis's dominant position in NTS would not be a problem , the minister said .
Clauses in Government Regulation No.20 / 1994 allow a foreign firm to control up to 95 percent of a domestic telecommunication company , he said after the launch of e-Indonesia Initiative Forum here Wednesday .
Lippo Group sold its stake in NTS to Maxis after it failed to develop telecommunication infrastructure although the cellular phone operator had obtained an operation license three years ago , he said .
Maxis had said it would invest $ 500 million in the next one year to set up a telecommunication network as stipulated by the Indonesian government .
NTS has so far provided people in East Java with 12,000 cellular phone lines .
Bank International Indonesia Tbk BII's net profit in the first quarter this year dropped 34.6 percent to Rp115 billion from Rp176 billion in the same period last year , its president director , Henry Ho , said in a press statement received here on Wednesday .
The drop was the result of a decline in credit margin caused by intensive market competition since March 2006 and competition for third party funds and a shift in the public's saving pattern from saving accounts to deposits , he said .
Although competition is increasing , our business remains ensured especially after passing a difficult time in 2006 .
Source of income growth , various important programs and initiatives that have been implemented have already yielded results and we hope there will be a significant improvement in performance until the end of this year , he said .
The bank's net income from interest was also down eight percent to Rp620 billion as a result of a hike in the non-performing loan ratio in the year before .
BII however has successfully increased its credit distribution to reach Rp26.489 billion which was a rise of 14 percent compared to Rp23.190 billion recorded in the same period last year .
The credit growth mainly came from the small-and medium-business / commercial sector which grew 33 percent , he said .
The bank's credit composition now is 33 percent for consumer , 39 percent for small-and medium-business / commercial sector , and 28 percent for corporations .
Its Lending-to-Deposit Ratio rose from 57.49 percent last year to 58.44 percent in March this year .
Total clients' deposits also went up four percent from Rp35.1 billion in the first quarter last year to Rp36.356 billin in the first quarter this year .
The bank also recorded its net non-performing loan ratio rose from 2.13 percent in the first quarter in 2006 to 3.89 percent this year .
The rise in the NPL was the impact of last year's situation when inflation hike , lowering consumers' confidence , hike in minimum credit card payment and less conducive economic situation has made credit quality to drop , he said .
He said the bank would continue to expand its market by launching various initiatives and programs especially early this year to benefit from the improving economy .
Publicly-listed cellular phone operator PT Excelcomindo Pratama Tbk XL has decided to allocate Rp67 billion of its 2006 profit to pay out dividends .
The dividends will be paid out starting on June 11 , 2007 , Execlcomindo President Director Hasnul Suhaimi said following the general meeting of the company's shareholders here on Thursday .
Excelmindo posted a net profit of Rp652 billion last year after suffering a loss of Rp224 billion the year before .
The company has set aside US $ 700 million to increase the number of its base transceiver stations BTS to 10,000-11,000 from 7,260 in 2006 .
In 2006 , Excelcomindo was 59.63 percent owned by Indocel Holding Sdn Bhd , 16.81 percent by Khazanah Nasional Bhd , 15.97 percent by Radjawali Corpora , 7.38 percent by AIF and 0.21 percent by the public .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani expressed confidence that the country's economic conditions in the first quarter of 2007 will be quite conducive so that there was hope the various economic indicators in the period would work out as projected .
As to economic growth , we are quite optimistic about the economy expanding in the range of 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent , she said following a meeting at the Bank Indonesia building here on Wednesday .
Based on the monitoring of early indicators discussed at the meeting , macro economic conditons were quite conducive as reflected by manageable inflation , among others , she said .
We will still keep a watch on rice prices , but it seems that in April and May the rice market will be better than earlier , she said .
The indicators in the real sector monitored through value added tax and income tax payments and trade flows showed an upward trend particularly in March , she said .
The government's expenditures on goods and capital in the first quarter of 2007 were higher than those in the same periods in the past two years , she said .
Overall , there seems to be improvements in the aggregate composition , such as public consumption which grew by up to 10 percent , investment which rose by more than 10 percent , the government's spending which exceeded that of the first quarter of last year , and exports which grew by more than 19 percent .
All these imply that the economy is likely to expand in the government range of 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent , she said .
Sri Mulyani further said to know the actual developments in the first quarter of 2007 , the BPS would make public its statistical data probably in mid May .
So , in general , our macro stability will be kept in check , she said .
On the deficit in the state budget in the first quarter of 2007 , the minister said during the period the government had issued foreign currency bonds , retail bonds and regular state debentures , leading to a surplus in state funds .
Earlier , Anggito Abimanyu , chief of the fiscal policy board at the Finance Ministry , said the economy was projected to expand in the range of 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent in the first three months of 2007 .
He said public consumption was expected to contribute 3.6 - 4.1 percent to economic growth , government consumption 4.5-5 percent , investment 6.0-6.5 percent , exports 14-15 percent and imports 11-12 percent .
State-owned Bank Rakyat Indonesia BRI said on Thursday its net profit in the first quarter of 2007 slightly rose 4.46 percent to Rp1.225 trillion from the same period a year earlier .
The net profit was driven by a 13.43 percent rise in interest income to Rp5.59 trillion , BRI President Director Sofyan Basir said .
He said nearly 76.99 percent of the interest income came from lending interest .
The bank also saw a 19.17 percent increase in its credit portfolio to Rp91.059 trillion , raising its loan-to-deposit ratio LDR to 74.7 percent , well above the national average of 64.53 percent , he said .
Over the period the bank raised third party funds totaling Rp121.898 trillion , up 24.7 percent or Rp24.176 trillion from the same period a year earlier , he said .
Publicly-listed PT Bank Danamon Indonesia announced on Thursday its consolidated net profit after tax in the first three months of 2007 nearly doubled to Rp482 billion from the same period last year , driven by an increase in income from its operations .
The bank recorded an operating income of Rp2,163 billion in the first quarter of 2007 , 41 % higher than Rp 1,539 billion in the same period last year .
Publicly-listed mining company PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam PTBA along with pension fund firm Dana Pensiun Bukit Asam DPBA set up a joint venture company PT Bukit Asam Prima BAP , a spokesperson said .
PTBA controls 99 percent while DPBA 1 percent of shares of BAP which deals with coal purchase , transportation , management and marketing affairs , PTBA corporate secretary Eko Budhiwijayanto said here Friday .
PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam also has two other subsidiaries namely PT Batubara Bukit Kendi which has operated in Tanjung Enim district in South Sumatra and PT Bukit Pembangkit Innovative in Lahat district also in South Sumatra , PTBA controls 75 percent of PT Batubara Bukit Kendi's total shares and 41 percent of PT Bukit Pembangkit Innovative's stakes .
PT Bukit Pembangkit Innovative is a consortium to build and operate a 2x100 MW steam power plant in Banjarsari area in Lahat district .
PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam is a sole supplier of 1.15 million tons of coal to PT Bukit Pembangkit Innovative a year .
The proposed Banjarsari steam power plant is expected to meet electricity demand in southern part of Sumatra in 2010 .
The U.S. dollar briefly rose to the upper 119 yen range Friday morning in Tokyo as the release of soft Japanese inflation data for March raised expectations that the Bank of Japan will not hike interest rates in the near future .
At noon , the dollar was quoted at 119.53-58 yen , compared with Thursday's 5 p.m. quotes of 119.53-63 yen in New York and 118.92-95 yen in Tokyo .
The euro was quoted at $ 1.3595-3600 and 162.57-62 yen against Thursday's 5 p.m. quotes of $ 1.3596-3606 and 162.55-65 yen in New York and $ 1.3638-3641 and 162.21-25 yen in Tokyo .
Publicly listed building construction company PT Truba Alam Manuggal Engineering TRUBE has through its Singapore-based subsidiary Tame Turnkey Contracting Pte. Lted. , won a contract for the construction of several units of steam power plants PLTU , Corporate Secretary Jenty Tjandradjaja , said in a report to the Jakarta Stocks Exchange here on Monday .
Tjandradjaja said that Tame Turnkey Contracting signed an engineering procurement construction EPC contract on April 30 , 2007 to act as contractor for four companies .
Previously , PT Central Pertiwi Bahari in its capacity as buyer and PT Central Daya Energi in its capacity as seller had also signed a contract for the development of a 2x30 MW PLTU in Lampung , TRUBE owns 19 percent shares in PT Central Daya Energi through its subsidiary PT Manuggla Power .
Besides , the company also has received a mandate from PT Central Proteinaprima to study the need for infrastructure of Dipasena company , Jenty said .
Deputy Governor of Bank of Indonesia Siti Fadjrijah said the central bank would see that International Accountancy Standards IAS 39 and 32 are applied to all financial institutions , including banks , by 2010 to create a stable financial system .
If the IAS has been completed in 2009 , the banks which have prepared themselves can start applying the standards in stages .
But this would be a must by 2010 .
So for the time being , let us see the development of the completion of the IAS , she added .
She said the central bank would also prepare Indonesian Banking Accountancy Guidelines PAPI after IAS has been adopted by the Association of Indonesian Accountants IAI .
We will cooperate with IAI to establish the PAPI which would make a fair value assessment once the guidelines are implemented , she said .
Siti added that the bank wants to make sure that the standard imposed on the banking sector could serve as a basis of an effective financial calculation and improvement in market discipline through a transparent financial report .
She also reminded that the system that might improve the stability as a standard which is suitable to safe risk management and to make a risk projection and increase the market confidence and corporate management .
The Export-Import Bank of Malaysia agreed to provide PT Destine Marine Indonesia DMI a loan of US $ 66 million at a 2.5 percent interest rate and payable in 3 years , an official has said .
Today we have signed a loan agreement worth US $ 51.444 million of the total credit of $ 66 million , DMI president director Chairul Anhar said here Monday .
The loan would be used in the building of two oil tankers ordered by state oil and gas company PT Pertamina .
The two tankers have a capacity of 30,000 DWT and 17,500 DWT respectively .
Under the contract dated February 8 , 2007 signed by Pertamina and PT Dok & Perkapalam Kodja Bahari DKB shipyard , the two oil tankers were valued at $ 57.16 million .
All the operational fund for DMI -- a joint venture set up by Indonesia and Malaysia two years ago -- has received support from the Malaysian Exim Bank .
Bank Indonesia central bank said on Tuesday it recorded a surplus of Rp31.01 trillion last year , up 91.90 percent from a year earlier .
The surplus was contributed by extraordinary revenues as the bank's own revenues fell and its expenditures rose , the bank said in its yearly financial statement .
The bank's own revenues stood at Rp31.26 trillion last year , down from Rp40.70 trillion the year before mainly due to a drop in revenues from monetary management services from Rp39.87 trillion to Rp22.61 trillion .
On the other hand , the bank's expenditures in 2006 jumped to Rp38.19 trillion from Rp24.54 trillion a year earlier as its monetary control expenses doubled to Rp32.99 trillion from Rp16.84 trillion .
Because of the higher expenditures , the bank last year sufferred a deficit before extraordinary items of Rp6.92 trillion after enjoying a surplus before extraordinary items of Rp16.16 trillion the year before .
However , the bank's extraordinary revenues rose to Rp37.93 trillion last year , resulting in a surplus of Rp31.01 trillion .
In the year ended December 31 , 2006 , the bank's liabilities rose to Rp674.90 trillion from Rp565.19 trillion a year earlier , fueled by an increase in the amount of state debentures to Rp250.25 trillion from Rp131.44 trillion .
The bank's equities meanwhile fell to Rp97.16 trillion last year from Rp130.23 trillion the year before .
Its total assets rose to Rp772.07 trillion last year from Rp695.42 trillion in 2005 .
State electricity company PT PLN will sell Rp3 trillion worth of bonds in July to strengthen its performance including to boost power-generating capacity , a report has said .
The bonds would comprise Rp2.7 trillion conventional bonds and Rp300 billion sharia bonds which would be payable in 10 years , the company said in a report made available here Monday .
The conventional bonds will be divided into to A serial and B serial which are respectively payable in 10 and 15 years .
PT PLN has named PT Danareksa Securities , PT Bahana Securities , PT Mandiri Securities , and PT Trimegah Securities to carry out the transaction .
The state electricity firm said bookbuilding period would begin on May 21 and last until June 12 , 2007 , The bonds will be offered on July 3-5 , 2007 .
Singapore revised upwards its 2007 economic growth forecast Monday , surprising economists , after a strong 6.1 percent first quarter expansion .
Financial services and construction led the gains in gross domestic product GDP during the first three months , the Ministry of Trade and Industry said .
The 6.1 percent year-on-year growth figure for GDP , the value of all goods and services produced in the country , was slightly ahead of the preliminary 6.0 percent estimate .
The Singapore economy started on a strong note , the trade ministry said , raising its 2007 GDP growth forecast to 5.0-7.0 percent from 4.5-6.5 percent .
On a quarter-on-quarter seasonally adjusted annualised basis , first quarter GDP growth eased slightly to 7.6 percent compared with 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of last year , it said .
Growth in the first quarter was led by the financial services and construction sectors , the trade ministry said .
The manufacturing sector , however , continued to experience a moderation in growth .
The 9.7 percent first quarter expansion in construction was the strongest in nine years , it said .
Boom times have returned to the city-state's building industry after years of stagnation .
A rebound in property prices and the start of two multi-billion-dollar casino developments have also helped boost the sector .
Financial services expanded 13 percent in the first three months , particularly in the capital and money markets .
Manufacturing grew 4.3 percent in the first quarter , a drop from 7.7 percent in the previous quarter , pulled down by a 5.0 percent decline in biomedical production and a 0.7 percent fall in precision engineering .
Electronics grew 2.6 percent , recovering from a 4.1 percent decline in the fourth quarter last year , while transport engineering which includes offshore oil rigs expanded 23 percent , the ministry said .
Manufacturing accounts for one third of Singapore's GDP which was valued at 210 billion dollars 140 billion US last year .
Wun said the electronics sector , a key contributor to exports from Southeast Asia's most advanced economy , appears to be bottoming out .
We will take a look at adjustments in the context of all monetary instruments we have such as the BI rate , foreign exchange reserves and weekly auction .
If need be , we will consider the GWM .
We have many weapons so that we will adopt a good policy combination that will have a minimum negative impact and bring down the inflation rate , the central bank governor said .
Previously , BI had projected the inflation rate this year at 4 - 6 percent and at 3.5 - 5.5 percent in 2009 .
But until June , the year-on-year inflation rate has reached 11.03 percent .
Banks with a DPK of lower than Rp1 trillion are only required to meet the 5 percent GMW requirement .
Data at BI show that until December 2007 the amount of GWM was Rp158.45 trillion and up to March 2008 it was recorded at Rp125.71 trillion .
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs / Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said the rate at which foreign direct investment FDI plans in the Batam Bintan Karimun BBK region were being implemented was not satisfactory and therefore much needed to be done in various sectors to increase the rate .
Although we have already achieved good results , in my opinion , there are still a lot things which need to be improved .
It's proven that the realization of FDI in BBK has not yet met the target , Minister Sri Mulyani said after a meeting at her office , here on Tuesday evening .
She said the BBK region was earlier expected to attract foreign direct investments worth a total of around US $ 1 billion .
Some factors which had made the region unable to meet the target might include human resource quality , manpower policy , infrastructure , taxation , and customs and excises , she said .
She called on concerned parties to hold regular meetings to deal with the problems .
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said a state should provide a comprehensive financial report which , for example , included state budget , balance of payments , cash flow and other financial notes , not a report which looked like that of a merchandise shop .
Speaking to a national working meeting on accountancy and government financial report here on Wednesday , the vice president referred to his disappointment when he was newly installed as vice president and received from the finance minister a financial report which he described as looking like that of a merchandise shop .
I remember when five days after I was installed I told the finance minister that I wanted to see the state's financial strength but what I received was a something similar to the financial report of a merchandise shop , he said .
The vice president said at that time he also wanted to see state's money reserves and assets .
But he was even upset to see the report where the values of the yen , dollar and euro currencies were counted in one place .
This is just the same as counting a herbal medicine plus an apple , plus a goat and the result is equal to buffaloes .
What a financial report ! What happened with the finance ministry .
I threw it away .
It's a stupid thing for us not to know our financial strength , the vice president said .
Therefore , he said , he asked that the report be revised so that the state's financial strength could be known every day .
The vice president acknowledged that the state was facing difficulties from year to year in its financial report because the state budget continued to increase from Rp300 trillion in the past to Rp1,000 trillion nowadays .
On the occasion , the vice president also called on the people to also look at the achievements the state had reached , not merely at the saddening things .
He said that the poverty rate had been cut from 30 percent to 16 percent and unemployment from 16 percent to eight percent .
The government has asked the House of Representatives DPR to approve an additional allocation of Rp2 trillion for its fiscal risk reserves in anticipation of an increase in the world crude price to US $ 150 per barrel in the second semester of 2008 .
In its First Semester Report and Projection for the Second Semester of 2008 submitted to the House's Budget Committee here on Wednesday , the government said it needed an additional Rp2 trillion for its fiscal risk reserves which would be used to cover a shortfall if the world crude price reached US $ 150 per barrel in the coming six months .
The oil price covered by fiscal risk reserves in the 2008 revised state budget was US $ 100 per barrel .
This figure has been far exceeded by the present world oil price .
In the first semester of 2008 , the oil price was US $ 109.4 per barrel .
The government also proposed an additional allocation of Rp3.4 trillion for its rice-for-the-poor program .
The additional budget was proposed owing to the increase in the rice and other food prices .
In order to increase the capability of small - and medium-scale businesses , the government also requested Rp1 trillion in additional funds to underwrite people's business credits .
In the revised 2008 budget , the allocation for this purpose was Rp1.4 trillion .
As a result of the fuel oil price hikes in May 2008 , the government also provided scholarships for students of low-income families with a budget of Rp200 billion .
In anticipation of contingency budget needs until the end of 2008 , the government also proposed additional budget amounting to Rp1.2 trillion .
The budget allocation for budget need in the revised 2008 state budget has been spent so that the government was proposing additional contingency budget for the second semester of this year .
The government also asked for additional budget for the election supervisory body Bawaslu amounting to Rp900 billion .
The rupiah tended to stabilize on Thursday morning as investors were careful in entering the market causing the transactions value to fall from the day before , a money market observer said .
The investors' stand followed a recent fall in global crude prices to US $ 135 a barrel causing the dollar to strengthen in the global market , Edwin Sinaga said on Thursday .
The rupiah rose by two points to Rp9,130 / 9,140 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday morning compared to Rp9,132 / 9,145 per dollar the previous day .
Actually , the rupiah still had a wide chance to further strengthen but the recent drop in global crude prices had hindered its appreciation although oil prices rose by 40 dollar cents on Thursday morning to more than US $ 135 a barrel , he said .
We are optimistic the rupiah will again strengthen to Rp9,100 per dollar because the drop in global crude prices is temporary in nature , he said .
The optimism was also based on the statement by Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI Governor Boediono that the country's economic growth was on the right track , paving the way for the attainment of the government-set economic growth rate target for this year .
He said the US mortgage turmoil which affected various European countries had had no significant impact on the Indonesian economy .
The rupiah's strengthening showed foreign investors' growing confidence in the Indonesian economy although the government's recent decision to raise fuel prices had a negative impact on various sectors , he said
Publicly-listed construction company PT Adhi Karya Tbk said on Thursday it has signed a Rp1.785 trillion contract with state oil and gas company PT Pertamina for the provision of 3-kg liquefied petroleum gas cylinders .
The contract was signed on July 16 , 2008 , PT Adhi Karya's corporate secretary , Kurnadi Gularso , said .
To realize the contract , PT Adhi Karya will cooperate with Barata Indonesia under a joint operation agreement .
The two companies will produce 3-kg LPG cylinders within 17 months at the latest since the signing of the contract .
Despite gloomy economic conditions this year , motor-vehicle sales in the first semester of 2008 reached 3,055,327 units or 65 percent of the figure for the whole year of 2007 , data provided by the Indonesian Motor-Vehicle Industry Association AISI show .
It is therefore expected that motor-vehicle sales this year will exceed the 2007 figure .
In the first semester , Honda still dominated the market with sales recorded at 1,405,669 units or 46 percent of the market .
Yamaha was second with sales at 1,203,851 units , Suzuki 405,339 units , Kawasaki 17,780 units and others 22,688 units .
In the last three months however April-June , 2008 , Honda motor vehicle sales fluctuated while Suzuki and Kawasaki sales showed an upward trend .
The government is selecting prospective dealers of its first-ever rupiah-denominated sharia bonds to be issued in August , a Finance Ministry official said .
We have already extended invitations to 11 prospective dealers , both local institutions and foreign investment banks , Director General of Debt Management at the Finance Ministry Rahmat Waluyanto said here on Friday .
But he stopped short of naming the 11 prospective dealers , adding five of them were foreign institutions .
Four of the 11 institutions have so far been primary dealers of state bonds , he said .
He said the government would soon appoint a law consultant in the issuance of the rupiah-denominated sharia bonds .
When the government issued its first-ever state bonds SUN in December 2002 , it only appointed dealers .
But now to issue state sharia bonds it will also appoint a law consultant to deal with various legal aspects related to sharia law , he said .
He said at least 10 domestic law consultants had applied for the post .
The government expects the law consultant and dealers will be appointed by July 29 at the latest .
To issue state sharia bonds , the House of Representatives DPR had given a seal of approval to the government to use state assets worth Rp18.3 trillion at the Finance Ministry as underlying assets , Rahmat said .
We have secured a permit from the DPR to use state assets in the form of land and buildings worth Rp18.3 trillion for the purpose , he said .
The rupiah fell below the psychological level of Rp9,150 per dollar on Tuesday morning as investors sold the local unit over worries about a global economic slowdown and soaring global crude prices , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The sluggish global economy and soaring global crude prices have caused the rupiah to weaken further , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Sudara Tbk said on Tuesday .
The rupiah traded at Rp9,160 / 9,170 per dollar on Tuesday morning against Rp9,148 / 9,159 per dollar the day before , down by 12 points .
Despite a persistent drop over the past few days the rupiah's current exchange rate against the US greenback was relatively stable now that the government expected the rupiah to trade at between Rp9,000 and Rp9,500 per dollar this year , he said .
The rupiah's weakening would be temporary and the Indonesian currency still had a chance to strengthen owing to positive market sentiments particularly an inflow of foreign capital after the government had issued global bonds , he said .
The stable conditions and higher rupiah interest rate would continue to attract an inflow of foreign capital , he said .
The government must be able to approach foreign investors to make long-term investment which would in the end reduce the country's unemployment rate and improve the people's purchasing power , he said .
In addition , the government must also be able to benefit from high economic growth in such Asian countries as China and India particularly after Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI had predicted the Indonesian economy would slow down in the third quarter of 2008 , he said .
The Indonesian economy in the third quarter of 2008 was expected to grow in a range of 6.1-6.5 percent compared with 6.51 percent in the previous quarter , he said .
The government in the first semester of 2008 realized the payment of Rp41.4 trillion in interest on its foreign and domestic debt , or 45.7 percent of the ceiling of amount of Rp94.7 trillion , a finance ministry official said .
The payments were made before the total of the payable interest increased to Rp97 trillion , the ministry's director for settlements , accountancy and evaluation , Widjanarko , said here on Tuesday .
He said payments of interest on state debentures at home reached Rp30.7 trillion or about 46.6 percent of the interest ceiling of Rp65.8 trillion .
In the meantime , payments of interest on external debts totaled Rp10.7 trillion , including other costs such as management fees and commitment fees , he said .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said recently payments of interest on domestic and external debts this year were estimated to increase to Rp97 trillion from the previous ceiling of Rp94.7 trillion as a result of a change in inflation assumptions from 6.5 percent in January to 9 percent or even to 11 percent later this year .
According to the minister , at present interest rates were relatively high because domestic and global inflation rates were also showing an upward trend and this had affected the interest burden in the state budget .
The government has set an assumed economic growth rate of 6.2 percent in the 2009 draft state budget RAPBN and hoped it could maintain the momentum of domestic economic growth amidst the looming global economic slowdown .
Speaking to the press after a plenary cabinet session at the State Secretariat here on Tuesday , acting Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Sri Mulyani said the macro assumptions adopted in the draft stafe budget were based on domestic and global economic situations .
The assumptions which lay the basis for the drafting of the 2009 state budget are the inflation rate which is projected at 6.5 percent , interest on short-term promissory notes SBI for three-month deposits at 8.5 percent and the rupiah's stable exchange rate against the dollar at Rp9,100 , she said in a press conference following the cabinet session .
She said the assumed oil price was set at US $ 140 a barrel , well above US $ 95-120 a barrel as recommended by the House of Representatives DPR .
Oil production was projected to reach 950,000 barrels per day , or the same as the ceiling recommended by the House with fuel oil consumption estimated at 38.9 million kiloliters , well above 35.5 million kiloliters quoted in the revised 2008 state budget , she said .
Gasoline consumption was estimated at 20.4 million kiloliters compared with 17 million kiloliters in the revised 2008 state budget , she said .
Diesel oil consumption is expected to increase to 12.6 million kiloliters from 11 million kiloliters in the revised 2008 state budget , she said .
However , kerosene consumption was projected to fall to 5.8 million kiloliters owing to the kerosene-to-gas conversion program expected to slash kerosense consumption by 4 million kiloliters , she said .
Based on the macro assumptions , the country's gross domestic product GDP next year is projected to increase to Rp5,295 trillion from Rp4,484 trillion in the revised 2008 state budget , she said .
Given the macro assumptions , the 2009 state budget would suffer a deficit of 1.5 percent of the GDP , or an equivalent of Rp78.8 trillion , she said .
The government has projected state receipts and expenditures next year at Rp1,158 trillion and Rp1,237 trillion respectively .
She said oil subsidy in 2009 was projected at Rp203.7 trillion and electricity subsidy at Rp84 trillion .
The rupiah rose five points to Rp9,130 / 9,135 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday morning from Rp9,135 / 9,142 the day before as investors bought the local unit .
The rupiah was expected strengthen further to Rp9,100 per dollar as foreign investors were still active in making transactions in the local market , money market observer Edwin Sinaga said on Thursday .
The rupiah's exchange rate remained unaffected by a report from the monetary authorities that the Indonesian economy would slow down in the third quarter of 2008 , he said .
Foreign investors' activity in purchasing Bank Indonesia central bank / BI instruments such as state debentures SUN and short-term promissory notes SBI had caused the rupiah to appreciate although the rise was modest , he said .
Meanwhile , local investors were rather careful in buying the rupiah over worries about global economic turbulence , he said .
He said the rupiah would gradually trade below Rp9,100 per dollar although the level was already considered very stable .
We are optimistic the rupiah will strengthen to below the level thanks to strong positive sentiments , he said .
Moreover , the stable market and the inflow of Indonesian funds that had been deposited abroad would give a boost to the rupiah , he said .
It was only a matter of time for the rupiah to strengthen to below Rp9,100 per dollar , he said .
Domestic banks are planning to raise their interest rates on time deposits following Bank Indonesia central bank / BI's decision to increase its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 8.75 percent recently , a banker said .
The rise in interest rates on time deposits will possibly also prompt banks to increase their lending rates in order to adjust to the cost of funds , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of Bank Mega Tbk , said on Thursday .
The banks would be careful in raising the intrest rates on deposits so as not to disrupt their credit expansion , he said .
We will also first look at market conditions to decide whether it is time to raise the interest rates on deposits , he said .
Domestic banks were now required to live up to their intermediary function to help boost national economic growth , he said .
Although the Indonesian economy was expected to slow down in the third quarter of 2008 , banks would continue to channel credits to the public , he said .
Farid Rahman , president director of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk , said the bank had yet to raise its interest rate on deposits .
We are still waiting for the large banks to raise their interest rates on deposits because they usually take the lead in the matter , he said .
Bank Saudara had so far set its interest rate on three-to-12-month rupiah and US dollar deposits at 8.75 percent and 2.5 percent respectively .
Meanwhile , state-owned Bank BRI said it planned to raise its interest rates on deposits early next week .
Bank Mandiri , the country's largest lender by assets , said it would raise its interest rate on deposits by 50 basis points .
Bank Mandiri's interest rate on one-to-12-month deposits in rupiah and US dolar was 5.5 percent and 2.75 percent respectively .
The Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Board Bapepam-LK said Qatar Telecom QTel is only allowed to buy a maximum of 8.2 percent of state telecommunications operator Indosat's shares .
There is a sectoral regulation restricting share purchases so QTel cannot buy more than 8.2 percent of Indosat shares , Bapepam-LK Chairman Fuad Rahmany said here on Thursday .
He said QTel must not violate a regulation allowing a foreign company to hold not more than 49 percent of a national company's shares .
We must safeguard the sectoral policy to protect the national interest , he said .
Under a presidential regulation on the negative investment list , a foreign company is only allowed to control a maximum of 49 percent of a national company's shares , he said .
QTel was currently already controlling 40.8 percent of Indosat shares so that it could only be allowed to increase its stake in the country's second largest telecommunication operator by at most 8.2 percent , he said .
We have no objection to the cooperation but it will never make QTel control more than 49 percent of Indosat shares , he said .
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD has offered to establish closer economic cooperation with Indonesia , an OECD spokesperson said .
We have proposed the development of special cooperative relations which we call ' enhanced engagement ' , OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said after a meeting with Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Sri Mulyani here Thursday .
The OECD had made the same offer to Brazil , China , India and South Africa , Gurria said , adding that along with Indonesia , the four countries would eventually be eligible for OECD membership .
Enhanced engagement was a more focused but at the same time comprehensive cooperation format for mutual benefit within the frame of efforts to improve world economic conditions , she said .
Meanwhile , the deputy for international cooperation to the coordinating minister for economic affairs , Mahendra Siregar , said the OECD had offered an economic cooperation plan suited to conditions in Indonesia .
The coordinating minister will evaluate the facilities to which Indonesia would have access in the proposed cooperation , and she will talk about it with other ministers , he said .
However , he said , Indonesia would focus on the economic cooperation offer rather than on the possibility of becoming a full member of OECD .
We will focus on economic cooperation , while the question of OECD membership which is dominated by advanced countries is not a priority , he added .
During her visit in Jakarta from July 23 to 27 , Gurria is also scheduled to meet President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and a few other Indonesian state officials .
The rupiah rose five points to Rp9,130 / 9,133 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday evening from Rp9,135 / 9,142 the day before as investors bought the local unit , a foreign exchange analyst said .
Investors bought the rupiah following an International Monetary Fund IMF statement that the Indonesian economy will continue to grow by more than 6 percent , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Thursday .
Earlier , the monetary authorities said the Indonesian economy would slow down in the third quarter of 2008 as a result of the sluggish global economy .
The rupiah strengthened against the dollar in the morning but came under pressure in the afternoon as investors hesitated to continue buying the Indonesian currency , Nova said .
The rupiah rose to Rp9,120 per dollar at 02.30 p.m. and fell to Rp9,136 per dollar at 02.45 p.m. , he said .
The Indonesian currency again rose moments before the market closed so that it edged to Rp9,128 per dollar and eventually closed at Rp9,130 per dollar on Thursday evening , he said .
He said the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar fluctuated as investors were still focusing their attention on global economic growth .
India and China are expected to enjoy high economic growth this year and Indonesia must benefit from their markets to boost its economy , he said .
The rupiah still had a good chance to strengthen to Rp9,100 per dollar , he said , adding , it is only a matter of time for the rupiah to reach this level .
Judging by the stable market conditions and foreign investors' strong interest in investing in the domestic market , we are optimistic the rupiah will reach Rp9,100 per dollar , he said .
The government is proposing to the House of Representatives DPR a 200 percent in increase in maximum luxury good sales' tax PPnBM , or a drastic increase from the current PPnBM at 75 percent , according to a government's draft proposal on increase in value added tax PPN and PPnBM .
We have to study it first because we do not want that all luxury goods will eventually be liable to the maximum PPnBM , Chairperson of the Working Committee on the PPN and PPnBM Bill , Vera Febyanthy here over the weekend .
She said her side would ask for inputs from all stakeholders who were related to the proposal , particularly the automotive industries owing to the fact that so far the maximum PPnBM had been imposed on four wheel vehicles with machine capacity of over 3,000 CC .
I agree with it if the aim of the proposal is to increase the state tax receipts but there must be classifications of luxury goods first , she said .
This year the government has set a target of Rp129.7 trillion in tax receipts from PPN and PPnBM , which is an increase of 39.4 percent from Rp93.0 trillion a year earlier .
Up to the first semester of 2008 , the realization of tax receipts from the PPN and PPnBM has reached Rp87.1 trillion or about 67 percent of the target .
The rupiah rose sharply to edge closer to Rp9,100 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday morning following a rush for the local unit .
The rupiah traded at Rp9,105 / 9,110 per dollar on Monday morning against Rp9,136 / 9,137 per dollar at the weekend , or an increase of 21 points .
As widely expected , the rupiah would hit the level thanks to strong positive market sentiments , money market observer Edwin Sinaga said on Monday .
We are optimistic the rupiah will strengthen below Rp9,100 per dollar due to the strong market support , he said .
He said the rupiah rose sharply after the monetary authorities believed the Indonesian economy would expand more than 6 percent this year despite a global economic slowdown .
Moreover , the government had been determined to benefit from China's and India's high economic growth , he said .
Coordinating Minister / Minister for Economic Affairs Sri Mulyani Indrawati said state-owned electricity company PLN was too slow in responding to the need for electricity and this was hampering economic growth in the regions .
I think PLN's response to the need for electricity in the regions is too slow .
This is one of the aspects the government has to evaluate , the minister said .
Speaking at a ceremony marking the signing of agreements between PLN and a number of banks on credit provisions , she cited as an example the difficulty to obtain electricity in Manado , North Sulawesi province .
I was to commission a new state financial institute building in Manado recently but it turned out the commissioning had to be postponed for six to nine months because the building has not yet been given electricity , she said .
She said she could imagine how more difficult it was to obtain electricity in towns smaller than Manado .
Manado is the provincial capital of North Sulawesi .
I just can imagine about the availability of electricity in smaller towns , the minister said .
She called on the PLN management to work more responsively but asked that it should remain consistent with the prudential principle .
Mulyani said the 10,000 MW thermal power project was underwritten by the government so that each time an agreement on its financing was signed , the finance minister must be present to witness it .
The rupiah fell 11 points to Rp9,287 / 9,290 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday following a rush on the US greenback , a foreign exchange analyst said .
Investors tended to sell out the rupiah after it had sharply strengthened at Rp9,276 per dollar , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara said on Thursday .
Rully said the rupiah came under pressure throughout Thursday but it was still at a safe level of below Rp9,300 per dollar .
There was no need to worry about the price correction because the rupiah still had room to strengthen again , he said .
Investors were still waiting for the US Federal Reserve's decision to raise its interest rate which currently stood at 2 percent , he said .
If the interest rate was raised the difference between the rupiah and dollar interest rates would become larger , he said .
The Fed is expected to raise its interest rate by 25 basis points in July .
He said if the Fed's interest rate rose the rupiah would likely fall because investors would buy the dollar due to the high interest rate .
The rupiah which currently strengthened below Rp9,300 per dollar received a boost after the government offered state bonds overseas , he said .
The inflow of US dollars into the domestic market would cause the rupiah to move closer to Rp9,250 per dollar , he said .
The rupiah currently came under pressure due to a weakening of the Wall Street's index causing the regional stock exchange's index like Nikkei index to fall 2 percent , he said .
We are optimistic the insignificant market pressure will cause the rupiah to strengthen again on the ensuing days because of positive market sentiment thanks to the entry of foreign investors wishing to increase their investement in the domestic market , he said .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono called for the further development of the government's micro credit programs in order to decrease the number of poor people which was expected to increase as a consequence of the oil and food price hikes .
The oil price surges had worsened the poverty problem and forced many countries to revise their economic projections and expectations , the President said in his speech opening the Asia Pacific Regional Micro Credit Summit here on Monday .
The price hikes had the potential to disturb political and social stability , and therefore the global community must jointly deal with poverty to protect their common future , the head of state said .
Micro Credit had proven able to help the poor who had no skills and capital for running businesses , according to Yudhoyono .
Micro credit recipients were known as good businessmen as data at the Indonesian central bank , Bank Indonesia , showed that problematic credits among them were only one percent , he said .
Economy focusing on small scale businesses was a long-term investment directing toward growth from below and important to reduce unemployment , he said .
Despite the existence of 50,000 micro finance institutions in Indonesia , there were still 40 million Indonesians who do not have access to micro credit services .
Most of them lived in remote areas with geographic and infrastructure restrictions , and lack of information on micro credit , according to him .
The Indonesian government is serious in developing remote areas and opening access to micro credits to local residents in the areas , he stated .
A number of banks had channeled micro credits and the government had also provided People's Entrepreneurship Credit KUR which is expected to reach Rp14-15 trillion this year .
The opening ceremony of the regional micro credit meeting , being held here from July 28 to 30 , 2008 , was attended among others by Nobel Laureate and president director of Bangladeshi Grameen Bank Muhammad Yunus , Bank Indonesia Governor Boediono , and Director of the Microcredit Summit Campaign Sam Daley-Harris .
After the summit's opening ceremony , President Yudhoyono received Muhammad Yunus .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said he expected the amount of People's Business Credits KURs channeled to the intended recipients to reach Rp15 trillion this year .
The amount of distributed KURs is expected to reach around Rp14 to Rp15 trillion or about US $ 1.6 billion this year , the President said at the opening of the Asia Pacific regional meeting on Micro Credits in Nusa Dua , Bali , on Monday .
According to the president , the KUR scheme was one of the government's efforts to increase the income of small - and medium-scale businessmen and lower the poverty rate .
The KUR program was launched in November 2007 , and the amount of KUR funds extended to small - and medium-scale businessmen in the country to date had reached Rp8 trillion. A total of around 900,000 small - and medium-scale businessmen had received the assistance .
Yudhoyono expressed hope the meeting which was being attended by 1,000 participants from 40 countries would yield something concrete to help poor people .
We hope Indonesian delegates to the meeting will learn from the experience of other countries which are successfully managing their micro credits , Yudhoyono said .
Commenting on his meeting with Muhammad Yunus , founder of Grameen Bank of Bangladesh , Yudhoyono said they discussed the implementation of micro credit schemes and concrete measures to reduce the poverty rate .
I have learned many from Muhammad Yunus's experience about methods to assist poor people in getting out of the bondage of poverty through micro businesses , the president said .
Meanwhile , Muhammad Yunus said at the forum that many countries had promised to start reducing poverty by implementing micro credit schemes .
All countries , especially in Asia , are doing their best to reduce their numbers of poor people , Muhammad Yunus said .
But he added the soaring fuel and food prices which had had a negative impact on the poverty rate had made it necessary to intensify the micro credit programs .
The soaring fuel and food price hikes have made it difficult to reach the targets of the Millennium Development Goals in 2015 .
But believe me , micro credit programs can solve the problem , said the 2006 Nobel Peace laureate .
Publicly-listed coal mining company PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam Tbk said on Monday its net profit in the first half of 2008 jumped 135 percent to Rp710.35 billion from Rp302.22 billion a year earlier .
The net profit hike was fueled by a significant rise in average coal prices at home and abroad , the company's investor relation officer , Nurtimah Tobing said .
The weighted average coal selling price in the export market in the first half of this year jumped 40 percent to US $ 63.63 a ton compared to US $ 45.44 a ton in the same period last year , she said .
Meanwhile , the weighted average coal selling price in the domestic market rose 30 percent to Rp435,926 a ton , she said .
The rise in selling price boosted the first-semester sales to grow 58 percent to Rp2.888 trillion and operating profit 163 percent to Rp959.459 billion from a year earlier , she said .
She said sale volume rose to 5.85 million tons in the first half this year from 5.07 million tons in the same period last year .
Nearly 63 percent of the company's coal output was marketed at home and the remaining 37 percent exported , she said .
The company had set itself the target of selling 13 million tons of coal this year , up 20 percent from the previous year .
The government plans to lower the assumed oil price in the draft 2009 state budget to US $ 130 a barrel from US $ 140 a barrel previously .
We see oil prices are indeed declining .
We are still studying the drop .
And we will look into the possibility of lowering it the assumed oil price , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs / Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Monday .
At the recent cabinet plenary session discussing the notes of finance and the draft 2009 state budget , the government decided to propose an assumed oil price of US $ 140 a barrel to the House of Representatives DPR .
Global crude prices once hit another record high of US $ 145 a barrel but they fell to below US $ 125 a barrel in recent weeks .
But to avoid all possible risks we will always form fiscal risk reserves to anticipate the possibility of global crude prices soaring to another record high of US $ 160 a barrel , she said .
The minister said global crude prices fell significantly to up to US $ 120 a barrel in recent weeks .
Based on the global economic projections world crude prices would reach an equilibrium at around US $ 133 a barrel in 2009 and the price of Indonesian crude ICP would likely reach US $ 128-129 a barrel , she said .
So , we will likely set the assumed oil price at around US $ 130 a barrel but we remain conservative in that fiscal risk reserves will remain unchanged , she said .
Based on information and developments in the past 24 months , global crude prices were not likely to plunge or continue to fall , she said .
But even if the global crude prices increase they will not reach a level of up to US $ 200 a barrel as many people feared they could not long ago , she said .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Astra Agro Lestari Tbk posted a net profit of Rp1.59 trillion in the first semester of 2008 , up 134 percent from the same period last year .
Crude palm oil CPO , palm kernel oil KPO , rubber and cocoa sales in the first semester jumped 91.66 percent to Rp4.64 trillion compared with Rp2.39 trillion in the same period last year , according to the company's financial statement published on Monday .
The average CPO sales price in the first semester of 2008 rose 58.9 percent to Rp8,229 a kg while the average KPO sales price jumped 81.9 percent to Rp10,599 a kg .
Although the cost of goods sold in the first semester of 2008 was recorded at Rp2.11 trillion against Rp1.25 trillion a year earlier , gross profit rose to Rp2.54 trillion from Rp1.14 trillion previously .
Mobile phone operator PT Excelcomindo Pratama EXCCL said Tuesday its net profit in the first semester of 2008 jumped 1,438 percent to Rp631 billion from the same period last year on the back of a sharp rise in operating income .
Operating income jumped 59 percent to Rp5.836 trillion in the first half of this year from Rp3.665 trillion in the same period last year , EXCL President Director Hasnul Suhaimi said in a press statement .
He said the operating income rose as the total number of outgoing minutes increased ten-fold to 19.3 billion in the first semester of 2008 from 1.7 billion in a corresponding period last year .
The number of EXCL subscribers meanwhile increased 124 percent to 22.9 million in the first half of this year from 10.2 million a year earlier , he said .
The achievement suggests that subscribers appreciate EXCL's services which combine quality with affordable rates , he said .
The rise in the number of subscribers was the result of EXCL's tariff strategy which was implemented starting in the third quarter of 2007 and had received a positive response from the market , he said .
Touching on the increasing competition among mobile phone operators , he said EXCL would continue to improve its performance .
EXCL is not only lowering its tariffs but also increasing its capacity and maintaining the quality of its networks , he said .
Indonesia's debt swap program has only reached US $ 275 million some Rp2,55 trillion or far below its total debt of Rp550 trillion , a finance ministry official said .
The value of the debt swap program is still too low considering the huge potential of Indonesia's soft loans from creditor countries , Director General of Debt Management at the Finance Ministry , Rahmat Waluyanto , said here Monday .
The government had called on creditor countries to consider more seriously debt swap facilities for Indonesia , he said .
Their commitments in various international forums to support the implementation of the MDGs program , climate change , and other programs should be followed up by cooperation in debt-swap facilities at bilateral level , Waluyanto said .
Indonesia needed the debt swap program to increase its development financing sources and support implementation of priority programs in MDGs , climate change , education , health , and environment , he said .
He said so far , Indonesia had concluded debt-swap agreements with Germany , Italy and the United States .
Italy had pledged to convert US $ 24.2 million and 5.7 million Euro of the country's debt into a grant to be used for rehabilitation of natural disaster-hit-areas .
Both governments had agreed to allocate 14.6 million Euro for 10 projects in infrastructure , education , and health in the tsunami ravaged province of Aceh , that would be managed by the Aceh-Nias Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency BRR .
Meanwhile , the United States had agreed to include Indonesia in a debt-for-nature swap that will involve US $ 19.6 million of the country's debt to the U.S. being used to finance tropical forest conservation programs .
Under the Tropical Forest Fund , a portion of Indonesia's debt could be reduced and re-directed to finance conservation of the country's tropical forests which are considered to be among the world's most estensive and bio-diverse .
The Tropical Forest Fund was set up jointly by Indonesia , and the US and non-governmental organizations as swap partners , and will contribute funds at a minimum of 20 percent of Indonesia's debts or some US $ 3.92 million .
The rupiah fell five points to Rp9,265 / 9,270 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday as the US greenback strengthened against other major foreign currencies , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The dollar strengthened as investors were optimistic the US Federal Reserve will keep its interest rate at 2 percent , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , Kostaman Thayib said on Monday .
Kostaman said the Fed was expected to keep its interest rate unchanged because it was still worried about the current financial crisis in the US .
The Fed's stable interest rate at 2 percent prompted investors to buy dollars causing the rupiah to weaken slightly on Monday , he said .
It was still hard for the rupiah to strengthen to Rp9,250 per dollar after it fluctuated within a range of Rp9,260 to Rp9,270 per dollar two days ago , he said .
Some analysts had earlier predicted the rupiah would continue to strengthen to below Rp9,250 per dollar , he said .
It was somewhat difficult for the rupiah to reach a level of Rp9,250 per dollar but the market was still optimistic about the rupiah's appreciation as a number of foreign investors were active in investing their capital in the domestic market , he said .
The Fed's two-day meeting to discuss a rise in its interest rate would prompt investors to actively engage in the domestic market owing to the higher difference between the dollar and rupiah interest rates , he said .
The dollar's appreciation against other major foreign currencies had encouraged investors to buy the greenback , he said .
The government and Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI will do their best to control the stubbornly high inflation rates in recent months , a chief economic minister said .
We will inform each other of any economic indicators for which we must be watchful such as the current high inflation rate , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Sri Mulyani Indrawati said on Tuesday .
Sri Mulyani made the remarks following the transfer of post of chief economic minister from Boediono to her .
The rupiah in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market on Wednesday afternoon strengthened to Rp9,243 / 9,245 against the US dollar after several times staying at the level between Rp9,275 and Rp9,300 to the greenback , an observer said .
The rupiah strengthened to below the level of Rp9,250 to the dollar after the government issued state bonds which are demanded by foreign investors in big amount , money market observer Edwin Sinaga said here Wednesday .
The rupiah rose by 23 points on Wednesday afternoon from Rp9,266 / 9,272 on Tuesday afternoon .
He said the local currency was expected to continue to strengthen to Rp9,235 to the dollar as positive sentiment from the offers on state bonds was still high .
The local unit would remain in the position following the two-day meeting of The Fed which was expected not to increase its interest rate as the US ' economy is still in lethargy .
We are optimistic that the US interest rate will remain stable at 2 percent , he said .
The rise in the rupiah's position was somewhat hampered by the sluggish regional stock market due to the weakening Wall Street stock exchange as the financial crisis was still going on in the United States .
The local currency strengthened also because foreign investors including those from India , Singapore , Malaysia and the Middle East wished to sink their funds in the domestic market , he said .
According to him , the rupiah could appreaciate further but it would be difficult for it to reach the level of Rp9,000 per US dollar as foreign businesspeople invested their money in the country only for the short term .
Foreign investors sink their capital for the long term only in the banking sector , he said .
The House of Representatives DPR's Budgetary Committee has agreed to an assumed economic growth rate of 6.0-6.4 percent in the 2009 state budget .
The committee at its working meeting with Finance Minister Sri Mulyani , State Minister for National Development Planning Paskah Suzetta and representatives from the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry and Bank Indonesia the central bank on Thursday also agreed to other basic economic assumptions .
The meeting also agreed to the inflation rate forecast of 5.8-6.5 percent for 2009 .
The other basic economic assumptions agreed to at the meeting included the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar at Rp9,000-9,200 , interest rate on Bank Indonesia's promissory notes SBI for three-month deposits at 7.5-8.5 percent , oil prices at US $ 95-120 a barrel , oil production at 927,000-950,000 barrels per day , and gross domestic product GDP at Rp5,200-Rp5,300 trillion .
Both the House and the government agreed to set a deficit in the 2009 state budget at 1.5-2.0 percent of the GDP .
State revenues and grants are projected at Rp1,070 trillion and state expenditures are estimated at Rp1,152.2 trillion so there will be a budget deficit of around Rp82.1 trillion or 1.6 percent of the GDP , Chairman of the House Budgetary Committee Harry Azhar Azis said .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani meanwhile said that in general , the government could accept what had been decided at the meeting .
Indonesia has the potential of securing climate change-related offshore loans worth US $ 1.2 billion which can be used to help offset a deficit in its state budget , an official said .
We hope the loans will reach US $ 1.2 billion , State Minister for National Development Planning / Chief of the National Development Planning Agency Bappenas Paskah Suzetta said here Thursday .
But he stopped short of revealing whether the loans could be obtained this year or next year .
He said the agency had prepared a matrix of climate change-related policies which constituted the government's agenda as a prerequisite to obtain the soft loans .
The loans which carried an interest rate of 0.65 percent were payable in 30 years , he said .
We are in the process of offering the same matrix of policies to Japan , the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank , France and Germany , he said .
Bappenas had so far received loan commitments worth US $ 200 million from the Japanese government , he said .
The rupiah strengthened at more than Rp9,200 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday as investors were active in buying the local unit , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The main factor of the rupiah's strengthening is the government's success in issuing most-sought global bonds worth US $ 2.2 billion , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said on Thursday .
The rupiah rose 54 points to Rp9,200 / 9,210 per dollar on Thursday compared to Rp9,254 / 9,260 per dollar the day before .
The US dollar inflows into the domestic market gave a boost to the rupiah so that it strengthened at more than Rp9,200 per dollar , he said .
An upward trend in banking interest rates was another factor of the rupiah's strengthening and the local unit was expected to edge closer to Rp9,100 per dollar , he said .
Domestic banks were expected to adjust their lending rates following Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI's decision to raise its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 8.50 percent early this month , he said .
He predicted the rupiah would continue to strengthen to Rp9,000 per dollar although it would be somewhat difficult for the Indonesian currency to reach the level .
At present the rupiah was very stable but monetary authorities must prevent it from strengthening at a fast pace for fear it would easily weaken , he said .
The rupiah would likely put under negative pressure ahead of 2009 general elections. But peaceful elections would make the rupiah more stable , he said .
Publicly-listed instant noodle maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur Tbk plans to sell 2.67 percent of its treasury stocks to strategic investors .
All the shareholders have agreed to the plan , Indofood Vice President Director Fransiscus Welirang said following an annual and extraordinary shareholders' meeting here on Friday .
At the meeting , the management of Indofood asked shareholders to agree to a cut in the amount of paid-up and paid-in capital to Rp878.04 billion from Rp944.42 billion previously as the company intended to sell its treasury stocks .
The company decided to take the decision to adjust itself with the new law on limited liability companies .
Under the law , a company is only allowed to control its buy-back shares as treasury stocks for a maximum of three years .
Indofood Finance Director Thomas Tjhie said all the remaining treasury stocks could be sold by August .
We will sell them to strategic investors. Hopefully , the process can be completed by August .
The meeting also decided to pay 40 percent of the company's net profit of Rp980.36 billion last year , or Rp43 a share , as dividends .
The rupiah in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market on Monday afternoon dropped to Rp9,225 / 9,230 from Rp9,205 / 9,215 against the US dollar last weekend as market players were still actively buying the US currency .
The rupiah dropped due to the high negative sentiment in the market following the increased world crude oil price which reached more than US $ 141 per barrel , foreign exchange analyst at PT Bank Himpunan Saudara publicly listed , Rully Nova , said here Monday .
He said the decrease in the rupiah's rate last Friday and Monday was considered normal after the Indonesian unit drastically increased to below the level of Rp9,200 to US dollar previously .
So , he said , there was no problem with the rupiah as it was still in a stable and safe condition .
The rupiah weakened also because e Wall Street was in a bullish condition which affected the regional stock exchange as the world crude oil price strengthened .
The world crude oil price rose due to increased political tensions between Israel and Iran , he said .
He said this condition would not last long as foreign investors were showing great interest in sinking their capital on the domestic market as Bank Indonesia the central bank would increase its reference interest rate due to the high inflation in June .
Market players are now waiting for monthly reports from the Central Bureau of Statistics to see whether or not the inflation in June would remain high , he said .
He said the rupiah was expected not to move farther as Bank Indonesia wished the local currency to remain below the level of Rp9,300 to the US dollar as such a position was considered stable .
Bank Indonesia continued to monitor the market to keep the rupiah below Rp9,300 to the US greenback as the central bank still had an adequate amount of foreign exchange .
The Anti Debt Coalition KAU has called on the government to capitalize on the summit which will take place near Lake Yoga Hokaido , Japan , on July 7-9 , 2008 to ask for the writing off of Indonesia's foreign debt .
This had to be done by Indonesia on the ground that 91 percent of its bilateral foreign debt which now stood at Rp258.96 trillion was to G-8 countries , KAU Chairman Dani Setiawan said here on Thursday .
The debt writting off was a form of responsibility of socio-economic crisis confronting Indonesian people as a result of foreign loan transactions .
The crisis is caused by practices of economic liberalization , privatization and the lifting of subsidies recommended by creditor countries , Setiawan said .
According to KAU data on list of Indonesia's foreign debt with G8 member countries , Japan posed a bilateral creditor in Indonesia with its outstanding debt totalling Rp186.38 trillion .
G8 member countries should be urged to write off Indonesian debt without any conditions to South countries including Indonesia. According to KAU , a commitment to give debt relief was made by G8 at their meeting in Birmingham in 2005 .
Indonesia will host the 11th annual meeting and 7th annual technical assistance and training forum of the Asia Pacific Group APG on Money Laundering on July 7-11 .
The meeting will take place at the Bali International Convention Center , Westin Hotel in Bali , Indonesia , spokesman of the Center for Financial Transaction Reporting and Analysis PPATK Natsir Kongah said on Friday .
He said more than 260 officials of financial intelligence units FIU from APG member countries and 19 international organizations as well as 6 observers from Asia and the Pacific would take part in the Bali meeting .
They would discuss a wide range of crucial issues related to money laundering and terrorism funding offences , he said .
Publicly-listed aviation service company PT Indonesia Air Transport Tbk IATA plans to buy three more helicopters worth more than US $ 30 million until 2009 , its director said .
This year we may only buy one helicopter .
We are still calculating the exact value of the three helicopters .
To be sure , it will exceed US $ 30 million , Ending Ridwan said on Thursday .
The funds needed to buy the helicopters would originate from banking loans and bonds , he said .
Currently , IATA is operating 10 chartered planes and 6 helicopters .
Ridwan said IATA won a US $ 3.6 million contract from nickel-mining company PT Inco Tbk for the provision of chatered aircraft to serve the Soroako-Ujung Pandang route this year .
The lease contract will hopefully raise the company's income by 50 percent from Rp217 billion in 2007 , he said .
Rupiah on the Jakarta inter-bank spot market on Tuesday morning strengthened to Rp9,212 against US dollar as the US greenback weakened to Asia's main currencies especially Japanese yen .
The rise in the rupiah rate shows a positive sentiment on the market as US dollar is entering the domestic market after the government offers state bonds in dollar , capital market observer Edwin Sinaga said here Tuesday .
He said rupiah received external supports due to the improving Wall Streets stock exchange positively affecting the regional stock exchange including Japan's Nikkei index which rose 0.3 percent to 13.526.63 or increased by 45.15 points .
We are expecting that rupiah will penetrate the level of Rp9,200 to US dollar this afternoon , the observer said .
The sales of state bonds abroad won positive responses from foreign investors so that the needs of US dollars at home could be met although market players worried about the inflation rate which would be higher in June than that in May , he said .
According to Edwin Sinaga , rupiah would in the near future approach the level of Rp9,100 to US dollar but it was still difficult for the local unit to reach the figure of Rp9,000 against the US currency .
Rupiah is now considered in a safe position as Bank Indonesia the central bank has bigger amount of foreign exchanges in anticipation of possible pressure against the local unit , he said .
The increase in the rupiah rate was due to the weakening US dollar as financial crisis in the US continued , he said , adding that the US was also facing the increasing inflation rate which had created worries that the US economy would continue to weaken .
State-owned Bank Mandiri BMRI has up to now extended Rp612.61 billion in credits under the People's Business Credit KUR scheme to 18,065 debtors in Kalimantan , BMRI deputy director Wayan Agus Mertayasa said .
Martayasa said in press statement on Friday that of the RP612.61 billion , some Rp50.10 billion were provided for 892 debtors in East Kalimantan .
The bank has also provided Rp228.17 billion for 11,188 recipients in West Kalimantan , Rp175.63 billion for 3,808 debtors in Central Kalimantan and Rp158.71 billion for 2,177 KUR customers in South Kalimantan .
Wayan said that the realization of Bank Mandiri's KUR credits had reached Rp1.021 trillion which were provided for 33,232 debtors , who consisted of 1,497 individuals and 31,735 cooperative members .
This has exceeded the corporate target of Rp1 trillion for 2008 .
The funds were distributed to 32,173 debtors in the economic sector , 85 debtors in the agricultural sector , 92 in the construction sector , 598 in trade , restaurant and hotel sectors , 84 in the service sector and 145 in the social service sector .
The rupiah moved closer to Rp9,200 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday morning as investors rushed for the local unit following Bank Indonesia BI's move to raise its benchmark interest rate to 8.75 percent last week .
BI's decision to raise its key rate by 25 basis points to 8.75 percent from 8.50 percent previously has led to a rush for the rupiah , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said on Monday .
The rupiah was trading Rp9,204 / 9,205 per dollar on Monday morning compared to the weekend closure of Rp9,213 / 9,219 per dollar , or an increase of nine points .
He said the rupiah received another boost as foreign investors rushed for state bonds so that state-owned companies' demand for the US greenback could be met quickly .
We are optimistic the rupiah still has a chance to strengthen to up to Rp9,200 per dollar on Monday evening , he said .
Earlier , the rupiah slightly strengthened by three points to Rp9,210 from Rp9,213 per dollar and moved closer to Rp9,200 per dollar as investors bought up the Indonesian currency , he said .
He asked monetary authorities to be wary of the rupiah's faster-than-expected appreciation for fear it would cause the rupiah to plunge more quickly .
The rupiah strengthened at Rp9,201 / 9,204 against the dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Tuesday evening after it hit Rp9,200 per dollar earlier in the day , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The rupiah was trading above Rp9,200 per dollar as investors were careful in buying the Indonesian currency , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Tuesday .
The rupiah closed at Rp9,201 / 9,204 per dollar on Tuesday against Rp9,205 / 9,209 per dollar the day before , or an increase of four points .
Rully said the rupiah hit the previous day's closure of Rp9,205 per dollar on Tuesday evening but investors speculated on buying the rupiah in small quantities causing the local unit to strengthen slightly .
The rupiah slightly appreciated against the greenback as investors focused their attention on the G-8 Group of Eight Industrialized Nations meeting in Japan discussing the US dollar's fall , he said .
He predicted the rupiah would continue to strengthen to up to Rp9,150 per dollar if global crude prices fell after they hit another record high of US $ 145 a barrel .
We are optimistic the rupiah will strengthen below Rp9,200 per dollar because of high positive sentiments , he said .
The rupiah's appreciation suggested that the Indonesian economy was performing well despite a global economic slowdown following the US financial crisis , he said .
Moreover , the high economic growth in China and India would contribute to economic growth in the rest of Asia including Indonesia , he said .
He said the dollar's depreciation against the Japanese yen over investors' worries about the US economic growt
Publicly-listed coal mining company PT Bukit Asam Tbk has decided to set aside 50 percent of its 2007 net profit totaling Rp760.2 billion to pay out dividends at Rp164.97 per share .
Compared to the dividend paid on budget year 2006 , the amount of dividend per share this time is 56.52 percent higher , PT Bukit Asam President Director Sukrisno said following a general shareholders' meeting on Thursday night .
The increase resulted from a 57-percent rise in net profit to Rp760 billion in 2007 from Rp486 billion the year before , he said .
Last year , PT Bukit Asam saw a 17-percent rise in its coal sales to Rp4.12 trillion from a year earlier , he said .
In the first quarter of 2008 alone , the company posted a net profit of Rp286.39 billion , with sales reaching Rp1.23 trillion .
The first-quarter net profit represented a 44-percent rise from the same period last year , he said .
Meanwhile , the selling price of coal in the export market between January and March 2008 rose 36 percent to US $ 59.7 per ton .
Exports accounted for 32 percent of our sales totaling 2.69 million tons during the January-March 2008 period , he said .
Over the period , domestic coal prices rose 29 percent to Rp484,000 per ton .
The rupiah rose 10 points to Rp9,300 / 9,310 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Friday evening following Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI's intervention in the money market , a money market observer said .
BI released funds from its foreign exchange reserves as part of a market intervention , causing the rupiah to strengthen to Rp9,300 per dollar , Edwin Sinaga said .
Sinaga said the rupiah needed to strengthen by a few more points to reach a level below Rp9,300 per dollar as hoped for by monetary authorities .
The rupiah is considered to be in safe position if it moves to below Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
The rupiah's appreciation , however , evoked little enthusiasm among investors who were still careful in making transactions due to a persistent drop in global crude prices which on Friday stood at US $ 126 a barrel , he said .
But if the present conditions continued in the days ahead , the rupiah would further strengthen against the dollar , he said .
I am optimistic the rupiah will gain ground next week so it will appreciate to less than Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
The rupiah's appreciation also resulted from a strengthening of the regional stock exchange's index after Wall Street's index strengthened , he said .
He predicted the market would give a positive response to the rupiah next week .
Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia Siti Ch Fadjrijah said that about ten banks planned this year to change the status of their syariah units into syariah commercial banks , like BRI Syariah , BNI Syariah , and Bukopin Syariah .
Some other banks , like Bank Panin when takin-over Bank Harfa Irna Gustia , and PT Bank Victoria International Tbk BVICwhen taking-over Bank Swaguna , also reported they planned to change their status into syariah banks , Fadjrijah told a syariah banking discussion held by banking and monetary news reporters in Jakarta Friday .
The other banks with the same plan include those to be taken over by an AL Barakah investor from Saudi Arabia .
Thus , this year there will be 10 wholly syariah banks , said Fadjrijah
refusing to reveal the names of the four other banks .
This development , she added , is an indication of the high potential of the syariah banks in Indonesia although their growth is still short of Bank Indonesia's expectations .
The potential of our syariah bank market is very high , but yet to be fully developed .
And even a growth of five percent is still difficult to reach , she said .
She added that the assets of syariah banks in the first quarter fo 2008 had reached Rp37.6 trillion , and those of conventional banks Rp1,800 trillion , while the projected growth of syariah bank assets was set at 5 percent of those of conventional banks , or Rp 92 trillion .
The growth of syariah bank assets had reached 37 percent which is higher than that of conventional banks , but to reach 5 percent of the total of commercial bank assets is not easy , he added .
She said further that BI is constantly encouraging the development of syariah banks by increasing syariah services , opening more branch offices , including conversions from syariah units to syariah banks and reducing the capital required for the establishment of syariah banks .
Commercial banks , she added , can also use their branch offices to build a bank syariah channeling office .
Many other things had been done by BI , but its growth cannot be so rapid has expected , she said .
In the meantime , commission XI deputy chairman of the House of Representatives Endin Soefihara said on the occasion that in the near future her office will finalize the syariah banking draft law with the government .
Hopefully it will be completed soon after the finance minister , legal affairs and human rights minister , and the religious minister , put their signature , he said .
Endin hoped that the law will encourage the establishment of new syariah commercial banks and syariah people's funding banks .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Bakrie Sumatra Plantations Tbk said on Monday it had increased its stake in Netherlands-based Agri Resoruces BV to 51 percent by acquiring US $ 41.22 worth of additinal shares in the company .
Agri Resources BV is a joint venture company set up by Bakrie and Agri International Resources Pte Ltd. of Singapore .
Bakrie Sumatra also has the option to raise its stake in Agri Resources BV to 100 percent by 2011 .
The rupiah edged closer to Rp9,200 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday as investors bought the local unit on the US dollar's depreciation against other major currencies .
The rupiah is expected to reach Rp9,200 per dollar or more because of investors' high interest in buying the local unit , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said on Thursday .
The rupiah closed at Rp9,205 / 9,208 per dollar on Thursday against Rp9,215 / 9,225 per dollar the day before .
He said investors were still careful in buying the rupiah on concern that anti-fuel oil price hike protests would continue .
We are optimistic that the rupiah will hit Rp9,200 per dollar after it stood at Rp9,210 / 9.220 per dollar for quite long time , he said .
The issuance of dollar-denominated global bonds was the main factor of the rupiah's appreciation , he said .
The rupiah received another boost after a number of foreign investors , particularly from the Middle East and Australia , expressed keen interest in raising their investment in the domestic market due to the high difference between the rupiah and dollar interest rates , he said .
We predict the rupiah will stay in a quite safe position for a long time despite the stubbornly high inflation rates , he said .
The high on-month inflation rate in June would likely prompt Bank Indonesia BI to raise its benchmark interest rate BI Rate despite calls for the central bank to keep it at 8.50 percent , he said .
An increase in the BI Rate would encourage banks to readjust their lending rates , he said .
Publicly-listed coal mining company PT Bumi Resources Tbk said on Monday its net profit in the first quarter of 2008 rose 29 percent to US $ 103.3 million from a year earlier on higher demand for the commodity in the export market .
Net sales went up to US $ 663.59 million from US $ 577.91 million , causing operating income to increase to US $ 160.93 million from US $ 112.27 million , the company said .
Overall , sales volume in the January-March 2008 period dropped 14 percent to 12.5 million tons from 14.5 million tons. However , average selling prices jumped to US $ 41.70 a ton from US $ 58.34 a ton .
Indonesia is the world's biggest coal producer .
Coal mining companies are enjoying windfall profit from soaring coal prices due to the global crude price spiral leading to higher demand for coal as alternative energy .
Cable producer PT Jembo Cable Company Tbk has set itself the target of increasing its sales from Rp735 billion to Rp960 billion in 2008 , a company spokesman said .
We are optimistic we will achieve our sales target by increasing our exports to Bangladesh and the Middle East .
Our cable export contracts have already reached a value of Rp487 billion , the company's president director , Antonius Benady , said here Monday .
In the first quarter of 2008 , the company's sales reached a total value of Rp202 billion and its net income Rp9.9 billion .
Benady said , the company was not planning to make any major investment in 2008 .
We only intend to make an investment in 2008 of Rp10 billion for rehabilitation of our factories' infrastructure , he added .
The investment funds would be obtained from the company's profits made last year .
At its annual shareholders' meeting , PT Jembo had decided not to pay any dividend this year because its earnings were still in a minus position .
Benady expressed hope the company's earnings would next year improve sufficiently so it would be able to pay dividends .
The company had agreed to put up some of its assets -- factories , land and buildings -- as collateral to get an additional loan from Bank Mandiri .
Bank Mandiri had initially agreed to give us a loan of Rp149 billion but the figure will now be raised to Rp200 billion .
The funds from the loan carrying an interest rate of 13 percent will be used as working capital , he said .
The government will auction three series of state debentures with a combined indicative price of Rp3 trillion on June 10 , 2008 , a finance ministry spokesman said .
Head of the Finance Ministry's Public Relations Samsuar Said stated here on Wednesday the three series of state debentures that would be auctioned were series FR004 , FR0048 and FR0049 .
Series FR004 carries a fixed interest of 10 percent and will mature on February 15 , 2028 .
Series FR0048 also carries a fixed interest rate of nine percent and be due on September 15 , 2018 .
In the meantime , Series FR0049 will carry a 9 percent fixed interest rate and mature on September 15 , 2013 , he said .
The auction of the state bonds will be carried out through a mechanism which was so far applied by the central bank , Bank Indonesia BI , with the auction participants having been decided in the first place .
He said the government had the right to sell the three series of state debentures at a price lower or higher than the indicative price mentioned earlier .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI is likely to take a bold decision at the next meeting of its board of governors to send a positive signal to the market that it cares about easing the prevailing inflationary pressure .
We must take a decision to give a signal to the market that BI cares about easing the inflationary pressure , BI Senior Deputy Governor Miranda S Goeltom said on Tuesday .
BI would always monitor the inflationary pressure in the months ahead and would give appropriate responses to it , she said .
But right now I cannot say to what extent BI will respond to it , she said .
The Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said on Monday the on-month inflation rate in May jumped to 1.41 percent , bringing the calendar year inflation rate to 5.47 percent and the on-year inflation rate to 10.38 percent .
Credit rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has affirmed its idA ratings for private television station PT Surya Citra Televisi SCTV and the company's Rp425 billion bonds I / 2003 due this month and Rp575 billion bonds II / 2007 with a stable outlook .
The ratings reflect SCTV's strong position in the country's free-to-air television TV station industry , favorable operating performance and its strong cash flow protection , Pefindo said in a statement on Monday .
However , the ratings are constrained by the company's dependence on certain program suppliers , intense competition within the TV station industry , and the potential of high inflation which might impede its revenue growth .
SCTV is the second company to enter the free-to-air TV station market in Indonesia .
It started its commercial operations regionally in 1990 with its head office located in Surabaya .
In 1993 , SCTV commenced to broadcast nationally and moved its head office to Jakarta .
As per December 31 , 2007 , SCTV was 99.99 percent owned by PT Surya Citra Media Tbk. SCM , an investment holding company , which has been listed at the Indonesia Stock Exchange since mid-2002 .
At the end of 2007 , SCM's shareholders consisted of PT Abhimata Mediatama 78.69 percent , The Northern Trust Company S / A Northern 7.90 percent , and members of the public owning less than 5 percent each 13.41 percent .
The budget deficit would be the balance between state revenues and grants estimated at Rp937.8 trillion and state expenditures projected at Rp1,020.1 trillion , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said on Monday .
The government said based on latest economic conditions until May 2008 , a deficit in the 2008 state budget is projected to reach Rp82.3 trillion or 1.8 percent of the gross domestic product GDP .
She said Rp252.3 trillion of the expenditures would go to subsidy , including Rp200.8 trillion in energy subsidy .
The energy subsidy consists of Rp132.1 trillion in fuel subsidy and Rp88.5 trillion in electricity subsidiy , she said .
The forecast was based on an assumed oil price of US $ 110 to US $ 115 a barrel , an oil production of 0.927 million barrels a day , and a rupiah exchange rate of Rp9,000 to Rp9,200 per dollar , she said .
The lower-than-expected deficit due in part to a cut in fuel subsidy following the fuel oil price hikes in May may further go up if global crude prices jump beyond expectation , she said .
In the revised 2008 state budget , the government had set state revenues and grants at Rp895 trillion and expenditures at Rp989.3 trillion so that the budget deficit was expected to reach 2.1 percent of the GDP .
The state revenues consist of domestic receipts of Rp892 trillion and grants of Rp2.9 trillion .
The domestic receipts comprise tax receipts of Rp609.2 trillion and non-tax state revenues of Rp282.8 trillion .
Meanwhile , state expenditures consist of the central government's expenditures of Rp696.7 trillion and the transfer of Rp292.6 trillion in funds to regional governments .
In the revised 2008 state budget , the budget allocations for subsidy reach Rp234.41 trillion , including Rp126.82 trillion in fuel subsidy , Rp60.29 trillion in electricity subsidy , Rp8.59 trillion in food subsidy , Rp7.81 trillion in fertilizer subsidy , Rp1.02 trillion in seed subsidy .
The rupiah on the Jakarta interbank spot market at the closing session on Tuesday afternoon dropped to Rp9,315 / 9,320 against the US dollar compared to Rp9,310 / 9,310 on Monday afternoon due to increasing negative pressures on the market .
The rupiah decreased mainly because of greater market pressures due to the weakening regional share market following the drop in the Wall Street bourse , retail banking director of publicly-listed PT Bank Mega , Kostaman Thayib , said here Tuesday .
The rupiah came under pressure also because of market players' worries over recent violence allegedly committed by the FPI Islam Defenders' Front against the National Alliance for Freedom of Religion and Belief .
However , the pressure eased somewhat after Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank , intervened in the market to prevent the rupiah from plunging further , he said .
He said BI was rather prudent in intervening as the regional share market was somewhat under pressure affecting the rupiah as the Japanese yen was strengthening .
However , the rupiah was expected to reach the level of Rp9,300 against US dollar or even exceed the level , he said .
The Indonesian unit moved only in a range between Rp9,310 and Rp9,315 to the dollar indicating the difference between interest to sell and interest to buy it was small , he said .
The condition will make the rupiah go up on the following days as the fuel oil price hike did not have a significant effect on the local unit , he said .
Kostaman Thayib said he was optimistic that the rupiah would late next week reach a level below Rp9,300 against the US dollar in conformity with the wish of the monetary authority BI .
If the rupiah could stay below Rp9,300 to the US dollar , the currency would be in a relatively safe position , he said .
To support the rupiah , BI was also expected to increase its reference interest rate so that foreign investors would continue to play on the domestic market , he said .
The fuel subsidy in the state budget will amount to Rp198.7 trillion if the crude price in the world market reaches US $ 150 per barrel at the end of 2008 , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said .
We have done a simulation to see the position of the state budget if the crude price in the world market reaches US $ 135 and US $ 150 per barrel , the minister told the Financial Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives DPR on Wednesday night .
She said the official formulation for the state budget in 2008 her ministry had submitted to the DPR was made with the average price assumption of US $ 110 per barrel .
The US $ 110 per barrel is an average price assumption for 2008 where the average price of oil from now until the end of the year is set at US $ 120 per barrel , she said .
But if the average price of oil from now until the end of 2008 was US $ 135 per barrel this meant that the average price for the whole year would be US $ 122 per barrel .
Or , if it reached US150 per barrel , the average price of oil in the whole year of 2008 would be US $ 134 per barrel , the minister said .
She said fluctuations in the price of crude in the world market would affect the state budget .
If the average price of oil in the world market reaches US $ 150 per barrel at the end of the year , the fuel subsidy in the state budget will reach RP198.7 trillion , she said .
The minister said the amount was far bigger than the official amount that had been proposed to the DPR .
She said the government would keep on maintaining the state budget deficit at 2.1 percent of the gross domestic product , although the oil price scenario reached US $ 150 per barrel .
Previously , at a meeting with the DPR's Budgetary Committee on Monday , the government predicted the realization of the state budget deficit up to the end of the year would reach RP82.3 trillion or 1.8 percent of the gross domestic product .
Indonesia's net foreign exchange reserves fell 2.2 percent to US $ 57.464 billion at the end of May from US $ 58.770 billion a month earlier , the central bank Bank Indonesia - BI said on Thursday .
In the meantime , primary money in circulation in that period increased to Rp333.996 trillion from Rp324.186 trillion following an increase in the circulation of banknotes and coins based on the BI's balance of accounts .
According to the BI , bank notes and coins in circulation increased from Rp202.477 trillion at the end of April 2008 to 209.081 trillion at the end of May .
Banks' balance of accounts at BI increased from Rp212.440 trillion to Rp123.817 trillion .
The net domestic assets or base money minus net foreign exchange reserves were recorded at negative Rp8.890 trillion at the end of May as compared with the Rp27.254 trillion at the end of April 2008 .
Bank Indonesia BI has predicted that the high inflation rate in 2009 in the country can be lowered to 6.5-7.5 percent , a BI deputy governor said .
If everything runs well , the inflation rate in 2009 can be lowered to a range between 6.5 and 7.5 percent , although in 2008 the inflation rate is at a range of 11.5 - 12.5 percent , Hartadi A Sarwono told a journalist workshop here on Friday .
He said the high inflation rate in 2008 was fueled by the impact of the fuel oil price hikes but because the impact of the fuel oil price hikes was one-shot matter , inflation in the following year would go down again .
Referring to the previous estimate of 5.5 - 7.5 percent by the House Budgetary Committee , Hartadi said it was an optimistic target .
Based on the results of a meeting of BI's Board of Governors , the most realistic rate is between 6.5 and 7.5 percent .
But it would be good to see the 6.5 plus - minus percent , he added .
In order to keep the inflation rate under control , BI will continue to give signs of issuing monetary polices such as raising the BI interest rate , he said .
State Enterprises Minister Sofyan Djalil said state-owned PT Krakatau Steel KS's privatization will have to be done though an Initial Public Offering IPO which his ministry had scheduled to take place in September 2008 .
We have decided to privatize Krakatau Steel through an IPO but the decision is still subject to approval by the House of Representatives DPR , Djalil told the press here Wednesday .
He said his ministry would challenge the House and the KS management to agree to carry out the IPO as soon as possible .
Djalil's statements come amid a controversy on whether the state's sole steel-making company should be privatized through an IPO or a strategic sale .
Some world-class steel companies such as Arcelor Mittal , BlueScope , Tata Steel , Pohong Steel , and Essar Steel were reported to be keenly interested in acquiring a stake in KS through a strategic purchase .
Djalil said privatizing KS , either through an IPO or strategic sale , would be a good move to increase the company's production capacity .
To us , the most important thing is achieving the aim of raising KS's production capacity to at least five million tons per year , he added .
The funds raised through the privatization would not be used for ground field construction as the company already had sufficient infrastructure such as ports , land , electricity and water .
The funds from the IPO will be used to improve the company's technology , he said .
However , some analysts opined that the current negative sentiment in the market would be unfavorable for KS to list its shares at the Indonesian Stock Exchange .
If the market situation is negative like now , we could release five percent of shares first .
When the market improves , we can list an additional 40 percent of the shares , Djalil said .
The minister admitted the government was having difficulty realizing KS's privatization as the plan was not only a technical-economic but also a political-economic matter .
Therefore I ask the parliament to make a decision on KS's privatization soon .
We should not get stuck in discussions , much less fail to make a decision by the end of the year , he said .
Djalil gave the assurance that no government official would receive any commission fee from anyone in the IPO process .
State officials are not allowed to receive any commission fees .
But in an IPO there will be various standard fees paid such as underwriter fee , legal fee , consulting fee , and arranger fee .
When state officials receive such fees , they will face prosecution under the law against gratification , he added .
Djalil declined to elaborate on who would be the underwriter and consultant in the planned Krakatau Steel's IPO .
Taxation Director General Darmin Nasution said the government's tax receipts in the first five months of 2008 increased 47.63 percent to Rp217.3 trillion from Rp147.2 trillion in the same period a year earlier .
Tax receipts from the oil and gas sector accounted for 60 percent , he said here on Friday .
He said the figure was 13 percent higher than the target .
Nasution explained that non-oil / non-gas tax receipts in the January-May 2008 period stood at Rp189.4 trillion , which increased 45.19 percent compared with the Rp130.5 trillion collected in the same period last year .
Oil and gas taxes collected in the January-May 2008 period were valued at Rp27.8 trillion , an increase by 66.8 percent compared with the Rp16.7 trillion collected in the corresponding period in 2007 .
The non-oil.non-gas tax receipts were collected from land and building taxes worth Rp5.6 trillion or an increase of 500 percent from Rp914 billion in 2007 .
Receipts from income tax also rose 39.4 percent and from luxury good sales taxes by 46.08 percent .
Non-oil.non-gas tax receipts in May alone rose 60.61 percent to Rp38.trillion compared with that in the same period in 2007 which stood at Rp23.7 trillion , Nasution said .
He said total tax receipts in the January - May 2008 period accounted for 40.66 percent of the target set by the government in 2008 .
The World Bank said still had no plan to finance the Jakarta monorail project because it was not included in its priority projects but it was ready to hold dialogs on the possibility of providing financial assistance .
We have no specific discussions on the matter at the moment because it is not part of our priority .
But we are open for dialogs on ideas not yet included in our priority projects , WB Representative in Indonesia Joachim von Amsberg told ANTARA here over the weekend .
He said that the bank's commitment was to assist government's priority programs or projects such as infrastructure in the region and poverty alleviation programs .
The fate of the Jakarta monorail project , which was initiated by the Jakarta administration , is still uncertain until today after the central government stated it would only bear some of the project financing .
Dedy S Priatna of the National Development Planning Board Bappenas said the central government , before taking part in the project , set a condition that the Jakarta administration and PT Jakarta Monorail JM as the executor of the project , should first make a calculation on the budget of the project .
The office of the coordinating minister for economic affairs has written to the Jakarta administration informing that matter , he said .
He said that the calculation must be carried out by an independent appraisal agency .
If its economic calculation is not feasible , the central government will not take part in the project and would prefer to give it to private companies , he said .
The National Development Planning Board Bappenas said recent fuel price hikes would affect projects financed with external loans , Syarial Loetan of Bappenas said .
In general , construction projects which are multi-years in nature would be affected .
Usually contractors have taken such a possibility into account as a price escalation when they are to take part in a tender for such project , he said here on Sunday .
In this case , creditors usually made available a budget surplus for a price escalation based on the value of their appraisal , he said .
Such a surplus is not available for projects affected by policy reforms , however , Syahrial said .
He said that a price escalation could also happen due to increase in the inflation caused by factors other than a fuel price hike .
We will ask for approval from the creditors to use the escalation price facility , he said .
The rupiah fell 22 points to Rp9,350 / 9,360 per dollar on Monday morning as investors bought the dollar following last Friday's rise in global crude prices to US $ 130 a barrel , a money market observer said .
The market pressure on the rupiah was quite strong so that the Indonesian currency weakened to Rp9,355 per dollar before it returned to Rp9,350 per dollar on Monday morning , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said .
I think the rupiah will continue to weaken due to the absence of a positive sentiment from the internal market despite Bank Indonesia's assurance to control the rupiah's movement , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI was likely to intervene in the market again in view of the increasingly heavier pressure on the rupiah , he said .
The central bank would release funds from its foreign exchange earnings to ease pressure on the local unit , he said .
He said the rupiah was expected to trade below Rp9,350 if the central bank intervened in the market .
The central bank wants to see the rupiah trading below Rp9,300 per dollar this year .
I am optimistic if BI continues to monitor the rupiah's exchange rate and intervene in the market the ru
Indonesia's balance of payments NPI in the first quarter of 2008 recorded a surplus of US $ 1 billion with the total amount of payments recorded at US $ 59 billion , Bank Indonesia BI said .
It said the country's foreign exchange reserves stood at US $ 57.464 billion in the month ended on May 30 , 2008 .
The NPI surplus originated from a US $ 2.8 billion surplus in current account transactions fueled by an excess of exports over imports and remittances from migrant Indonesian workers aboard .
The growth of current account transactions indicated that the external sector still gave positive contributions to the domestic economy's performance , it said .
Exports in the first quarter of 2008 were valued at US $ 34.4 billion f.o.b , up 29.2 percent from the same period last year .
Oil and gas exports recorded the highest growth at 61.7 percent , followed by non-oil / non-gas exports which grew 21.8 percent , it said .
A surge in the prices of oil and several key non-oil / non-gas commodities such as palm oil , rubber and tin coupled with rising demand in the export market contributed to the increase in the export value .
In the meantime , imports reached US $ 26.8 billion f.o.b , up 41.9 percent , suggesting that there were still robust economic activities at home .
The surplus in current account transactions offset a US $ 1.4 billion deficit in capital and financial transactions partly caused by a drop in foreign portfolio capital inflows to the country .
The drop was triggered by the global financial market which had not yet recovered from the US subprime mortgage crisis , coupled with investors' negative perception of the state budget's resistance to the pressure of global crude price spiral .
The four investment management companies are PT Mega Global Investama , PT Platinum Investama , PT Bali Securities and PT United Asia Securities .
The revocation of the companies' permits is effective as of May 28 , 2008 , Ngalim said in a release on Tuesday .
Ngalim said the four investment management companies were banned from doing business as investment managers .
They were also required to settle all their obligations to other concerned parties .
Besides , Bapepam also revoked the license of security company PT Pentasena Arthasentosa .
The revocation was indicated in Bapepam's letter of June 5 , 2008 , he said .
The government has promised to give a tax incentive to foreign and domestic investors for following regulations under the regional and national spatial master plans RTRW , Director General for Spatial Planning Affairs Dr Ir I.F. Poermomosidhi MSc said .
The provisions on the tax incentives will be stipulated in a special government regulations on incentives , the director general said on the sidelines of the popularization of Government Regulation PP No. 26 / 2008 on RTRWN at the National Development Planning Board Beppenas building here on Monday .
They will enjoy the facilities if , for example , the investors only use 40 percent of the 80 percent land they are allowed to use or on which to build a two-storey rather than a four-storey building , the director general said .
The director general said that the PP also contained a provision which regulated the involvement of regional administrations in providing incentives , particularly with regard to space use in their regions .
The values and types of the incentives are to be decided by the regional administrations concerned , the director general said .
Based on article 118 of the PP , there will also be disincentives for those who disobey the RTRWB such as the imposition of high tax , restriction of infrastructure facilities , imposition of compensation and penalties .
Indonesia's on-month inflation rate jumped to 1.41 percent in May due to fuel oil price hikes and speculations in the runup to the government's decision to raise fuel oil prices , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
The May 2008 inflation rate brought the calendar-year inflation rate to 5.47 percent and the on-year inflation rate to 10.38 percent , BPS Chief Rusman Heriawan said on Monday .
It is for the first time since October 2005 - when fuel oil prices were doubled - that all 45 cities surveyed recorded inflation , he said .
The BPS noted that the transportation , communication and financial service sectors contributed 2.23 percent to the monthly inflation rate , followed by the food sector 2.23 percent , and the housing , water , electricity , gas and fuel sectors 1.58 percent .
In May the prices of gasoline rose by 8.59 percent to an average of Rp4,887 from Rp4,500 a liter in April , adding 0.29 percent to the monthly inflation rate of 1.41 percent , he said .
The average fuel price of Rp4,887 a liter was based on the old price of Rp4,500 a liter in the first 23 days of May 2008 and the new price of Rp6,000 a liter in the remaining 8 days , he said .
The LPG price rose by 0.18 percent in May from a month earlier due to a shortage of the commodity , he said .
The bureau noted that the price of a 3-kg gas cylinder at the consumer's level increased by an average of Rp17,500 in May from Rp15,000 a month earlier while the price of 12-kg gas cylinders rose to Rp65,000 from Rp55,000 .
The increase in rice prices contributed 0.13 percent to the on-month inflation rate in May .
The rice price hikes occurred in all cities in the country , with Banten recording the highest increase at 8.83 percent , he said .
Actually , speculations on whether or not the government would carry through the fuel price hike plan also contributed significantly to inflation , namely by around 0.5 percent , he said .
So , even if the fuel oil prices were not raised , the speculations themselves contributed 0.5 percent to the monthly inflation rate , he said .
Therefore , it would be difficult for the government to achieve its inflation rate target of 11 percent at the end of 2008 because of heavy inflationary pressures from July to December this year .
The rupiah edged closer to Rp9,300 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Tuesday evening after Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI intervened in the money market , a foreign exchange analyst said .
BI's intervention proved effective so the rupiah continued to edge closer to Rp9,300 per dollar though its appreciation happened slowly , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said .
The rupiah strengthened to Rp9,303 / 9,305 per dollar on Tuesday after it closed at Rp9,313 / 9,326 per dollar the day before .
He said BI wanted the rupiah to remain below Rp9,300 per dollar as this level was considered safe for the Indonesian economy .
The rupiah's chance of strengthening to below Rp9,300 per dollar was wide open , he said .
He said the rupiah should strengthen to below Rp9,300 per dollar now that the US greenback was weakening against other major foreign currencies , including the euro and yen .
The rupiah received another boost after the Deposit Insurance Agency LPS raised its interest rate to 8.50 percent from 8.25 percent previously , he said .
The increase in the LPS interest rate , coupled with a strengthening of the regional stock exchange's index , was the main factor in the rupiah's appreciation , he said .
He said the rise in the LPS interest rate triggered by BI's decision to raise its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 8.50 percent early this month was expected to encourage foreign investment inflows into the country .
A number of Middle Eastern investors had invested in the country's banking sector , he said .
In addition , 28 Australian banking analysts and fund managers were holding a road show in Indonesia to explore the possibility of investment in the country .
Judging by foreign investors' high interest in investing in the domestic market , we are optimistic the national economy will grow at a fast pace , he said .
Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves will increase following the issuance of global bonds worth US $ 2.2 billion this month , a central bank official said .
We were not directly involved in the global bond roadshow but it the issuance of global bonds will raise our foreign exchange reserves , Deputy Bank Indonesia Governor B Hartadi A. Sarwono said on Wednesday .
The global bonds are divided into Indo 14 bonds worth US $ 300 million , Indo 18 bonds worth US $ 900 million and Indo 8 bonds worth US $ 1 billion .
The bonds are issued at a yield of 7.75 percent .
We were not directly involved in the roadshow .
That is the business of the government as the issuer , Hartadi said .
Head of the Fiscal Policies Board at the Finance Ministry Anggito Abimanyu meanwhile said the value of the bonds issued matched the market demand .
The issuance of the global bonds is part of the government's efforts to meet part of funds to finance the state budget .
The government has projected a deficit in the 2008 state budget at Rp82.3 trillion or 1.8 percent of the country's gross domestic product GDP .
The deficit will result from the difference between state expenditures estimated at Rp1,020.1 trillion and state receipts and grants projected at Rp937.8 trillion .
In the revised 2008 state budget , the government had previously projected state receipts and grants at Rp895 trillion and state expenditures at Rp989.3 trillion so that the state budget deficit would reach 2.1 percent of the GDP .
International stock rating agency Fitch Ratings has assigned a National Long-term Issuer rating of ' Aidn ' with a stable outlook to PT Bank Syariah Muamalat Indonesia Tbk Muamalat .
At the same time , Fitch also assigned an expected rating of ' A-idn ' A minusidn to Muamalat's proposed IDR400 billion , 10-year subordinated mudaraba bond , callable at the end of the fifth year , the Singapore-based agency said in a statement on Friday .
The rating reflects Muamalat's position as the second largest player in the small but fast growing Islamic banking industry in Indonesia , its satisfactory profitability as well as improved financing quality , with its relatively lower capital levels mitigated by increased provisions set aside for non-performing financing NPF in 2007 .
As the second largest Islamic bank with a 29 % market share of the Islamic banking industry's total assets at end-2007 albeit only 0.5 % of overall banking industry's total assets , net financing margin NFM on Muamalat's financing operations increased to 7.9 % in 2007 from 6.4 % in 2004 due to better funding structure .
The proportion of lower cost deposits increased to about 50 % of total deposits at end-2007 from 38 % at end-2004 .
Muamalat's assets grew rapidly albeit slower than the industry average , at 38 % CAGR over 2002-2007 , thanks partly to expansion in its distribution network with total offices increased to 213 at end-2007 from 66 offices at end-2002 .
Gross NPF declined to 3.0 % of total financing at end-2007 Islamic banking industry : 4.1 % from 5.7 % at end-2006 thanks to restructuring efforts and better macroeconomic conditions in Indonesia .
The amount of NPF fell to Rp255 billion at the end of 2007 from Rp379 billion at the end of 2006 .
Provision cover was raised to about 88.5 % of NPF at the end of 2007 from 33.8 % at the end of 2006 , and this should help cushion any rise in NPF ahead given the more challenging operating conditions in 2008 .
Muamalat's capital ratio is below the banking industry's average , with total CAR declining to 10.7 % at the end of 2007 from 14.2 % at the end of 2006 overall banking industry's : 19.2 % at the end of 2007 due to strong financing growth as well as a high dividend payout ratio 78 % in 2004-2006 .
A proposed subordinated debt issuance in 2008 and a planned rights issue in 2009 are expected to help strengthen the bank's total CAR and raise the level above the 12 % minimum target set internally by the bank .
Muamalat was established in 1991 as the first Islamic bank in Indonesia .
The Islamic Development Bank IDB injected capital in 1999 after Muamalat ran into financial difficulties during the Asian financial crisis and became the largest shareholder with a 28.01 % stake at the end of 2007 .
Other substantial shareholders include Boubyan Bank Kuwait 21.28 % , and Atwill Holding Limited 15.32 % .
The government will not change its budget deficit-financing scenario although a deficit in the revised 2008 state budget fell Rp12.2 trillion to Rp82.3 trillion or 1.8 percent of the country's gross domestic product GDP , an official said .
That is the ceiling ...
If the ceiling is no longer needed , we will not scrap it , Head of the Fiscal Policy Board at the Finance Ministry Anggito Abimanyu said on Monday .
Under the scenario , the government would continue to set itself the target of withdrawing program loans worth US $ 2.9 billion , issuing state bonds worth Rp117 trillion and earning Rp500 billion from the privatization of state firms this year , he said .
Asked whether the government would withdraw program loans or issue state bonds in reaction to the current market for state bonds , he said it would continue to withdraw funds from the two funding sources .
Under the current situation , we must take intermediary steps .
We will continue to issue state bonds even at higher cost but at an acceptable level , he said .
On the contrary , if the government did not withdraw program loans , the economy would grow at a slow pace because the loans would be used to finance the construction of infrastructure facilities , he said .
State mining company PT Aneka Tambang Tbk Antam has teamed up with BHP Billiton to develop nickel laterite deposits in Indonesia .
To develop the project , Antam has signed a Joint Venture Agreement JVA with BHP Billiton for the development and exploitation of nickel laterite deposits in Indonesia's eastern province .
The ownership structure between JVA and BHP Billiton had been set at 50:50 .
The JVA was signed in Jakarta by Antam's president director D. Aditya Sumanagara and Jimmy Wilson , President of Stainless Steel Materials BHP Billiton , Antam's corporate secretary Bimo Budi Satryo said in Jakarta on Wednesday .
The JVA between Antam and BHP Billiton was conditional , namely an approval of the Board of BHP Billiton must be secured , hopefully next month .
The signing of the JVA followed the signing of a Heads Of Agreement HOA in Perth between Antam and BHP Billiton in February last year .
The alliance with BHP Billiton is in line with Antam's strategy to enter further into the downstream metal processing sector applying higher technology .
The strategic alliance with BHP Billiton is also expected to reduce risks and the mineral deposit development cost , he said .
The Finance Ministry is taking care of the distribution of funds allocated by the Agriculture Ministry to the farmers to increase the production and productivity of rice , corn and soybean .
The finance ministry merely channeled the money under a regulation of the Directorate General of Treasury No Per-11 / PB / 2008 of May 2 , 2008 on directives on the distribution of fund to the farmers for increasing the productivity and production of rice , corn , and soybean the implementation guidance on the channelling and payment of productivity and production fund for rice , corn and soybean through the integrated crops and resources management vocational school .
In supporting the government's program on the improvement of the productivity , production , and income of rice , corn and soybean growers , the agriculture ministry had allocated the funds .
The finance ministry confirmed that the amount of fund as specified in the list of budget for the projects , must not exceed the budget ceiling .
Based on the fund allocation from the agriculture ministry , the officials in charge of making a commitment held a tender for the payment request letter SPP to officials who signed the payment order letter SPM .
The tested SPP document also covered supporting SPP document , availability of budget ceiling in the budget project requirement list DIPA in order to assure that the claim should not exceed the budget ceiling , pursuant to a working plan and / or feasility of working results .
The directorate general of treasury also disclosed that all provisions on procedures and requirements in applying for the SPP was arranged through a decree of the food crops director general of the agriculture ministry .
The Islamic Development Bank IDB has promised to issue rupiah-denominated sharia bonds to finance its projects in Indonesia following the enactment of law on state sharia bonds SBSN in the country , an official said .
I met with the IDB president some time ago .
At that time he was waiting for the law on sharia bonds .
He told me that soon after the law had been enacted , they would issue rupiah-denominated bonds , Dewo Broto Joko Putranto , director of foreign multilateral funding at the Office of the State Minister for National Development Planning / National Development Planning Board Bappenas , said here on Wednesday .
The IDB had so far done the same thing in many Organization of Islamic Conference OIC member countries .
In Malaysia , they have issued ringgit-denominated sharia bonds , he said .
He said both domestic and foreign investors could bid for the rupiah-denominated sharia bonds .
They could be Middle Eastern investors who now have excessive liquid funds .
Asked about the possibility of Indonesia obtaining program loans from the IDB , he said it was difficult to do so because the bank was facing solvency capital problems .
The government is planning to issue state sharia bonds worth Rp15 trillion this year .
Data from Bappenas show Indonesia has so far obtained project loans from the World Bank , the Asian Development Bank ADB and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation JBIC as well as from other multilateral creditors , including the IDB .
The IDB's outstanding loans for Indonesia amounted to US $ 411.14 million for 17 projects as per December 31 , 2007 .
The rupiah in the Jakarta interbank spot market fell 10 points to Rp9,285 / 9,295 per dollar on Thursday evening from Rp9,285 / 9,300 per dollar on Wednesday .
Investors were less interested in buying up the dollar as street rallies against a government plan to raise fuel prices showed signs of abating , leading to a slight fall in the rupiah's exchange rate against the greenback , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said on Thursday .
He pointed out the strengthening of the regional stock exchange's index coupled with Bank Indonesia the central bank's plan to intervene in the market if the rupiah fell to Rp9,300 per dollar had eased negative pressure on the Indonesian currency .
We predict the rupiah will still be under pressure to hover above Rp9,300 per dollar on the ensuing day due to pressure from the global crude oil prices , he said .
The global crude oil prices currently stood at US $ 126 a barrel compared to US $ 127 a barrel previously , he said .
But he added the global crude prices might go up again and even hit an unprecedented level of US $ 200 a barrel because of high demand from the United States and China , the world's largest oil consumers .
As a crude oil exporter , Indonesia was supposed to enjoy windfall profit from the soaring global crude prices but the country was battling it out to plug a deficit in the state budget , he said .
Even the government was seeking foreign loans and planning to raise fuel oil prices by up to 30 percent to offset the budget deficit , he said .
The plan to raise fuel prices , if realized , would slow down economic growth because all sectors would be affected , he said .
The Indonesian economy in the first quarter of 2008 grew by 2.15 percent from the previous quarter and 6.28 percent from the same quarter last year , the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said .
The key driver of the quarterly growth was the agricultural sector which contributed 18.02 percent while that of the year-on-year growth was the transportation and telecommunication sector which contributed 19.7 percent , BPS Deputy Chief for Balance Sheet and Statiscical Analyses Slamet Sutomo said on Thursday .
Hence , the country's nominal gross domestic product GDP in the first quarter of 2008 was Rp1,126.8 trillion compared to Rp1,041.1 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2007 , he said .
Compared to the previous quarter , the contribution of household consumption to the GDP in the first quarter of 2008 fell 0.4 percent , that of state consumption 30.5 percent and that of investment 0.6 percent , he said .
However , the export of goods and services which rose 5.7 percent gave positive contributions to the GDP , he said .
The drop in the household consumption's contribution to the GDP to 95.01 based on the consumer tendency index suggests that the consumer's economy is worsening .
Meanwhile , the government consumption was low as this budget year started a few months ago , he said .
The Finance Ministry has set the economic growth rate target for 2008 at 6 percent , or 0.3 percent lower than last year's 6.3 percent .
The rupiah rose three points to Rp9,313 / 9,315 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday as investors bought up the local unit , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The rupiah buyup is relatively small as investors are still waiting for a meeting of the group of eight G-8 industrialized nations expected to send a positive market sentiment , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara said .
As previously expected , the rupiah which fell in the morning session would strengthen on Monday evening as the price correction was relatively small , he said .
But the rupiah buyup occurred ahead of the evening session so that it appreciated only slightly , he said .
The rupiah's appreciation was inseparable from Bank Indonesia the central bank's efforts to keep the Indonesian currency at the safe level of Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
If the rupiah could be kept below Rp9,300 per dollar , it would be considered to be in the safest position , he said .
After all , it would be somewhat difficult for the rupiah to remain below Rp9,300 per dollar given the unpredictability of global market turbulences despite the absence of negative upheaval putting pressure on it , he said .
Slowly but surely , the rupiah would reach the level as it kept moving closer to Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
The Indonesian economy was also expected to pick up as reflected by investors' interest in investing in the domestic market , he said .
State mining company PT Antam Tbk and Jindal Stainless Limited have agreed to build a nickel and stainless steel smelter in Indonesia's Southeast Sulawesi province .
In its initial phase of operations the smelter will have an annual production capacity of 20,000 tons of nickel and 250,000 tons of steel , mostly high-quality stainless steel of the series 300 , Antam President Director Dedi Adytia said on Tuesday .
He said the smelter would be 55 percent owned by Antam and 45 percent by Jindal .
Antam's contributions to the project would be expertise in nickel mining and processing as well as domestic knowledge and experience while Jindal's contributions would be stainless steel processing , marketing experience and global marketing networks .
The smelter would process nickel ore originating from Antam's mining concessions in Mandiodo .
The nickel ore was believed to have an average nickel content of 1.5 percent , he said .
He said the project would include a coal-fired power plant , water sanitation facility , port and housing complex .
The project would cost an estimated US $ 700 million , he said .
He said Antam and Jindal would soon set up a team to make preparations for the formation of a joint venture company to be called PT Antam Jindal Stainless Indonesia .
The project was part of Antam's business strategy to diversify its products , he said .
Bank Bukopin agreed at its general shareholders meeting on Thursday to pay out a cash dividend of Rp187.56 billion or Rp33.07 per share .
He said the dividend accounted for 50 percent of the bank's net profit of Rp365.13 billion last year .
At the meeting the management of the bank also reported the use of Rp269 billion in funds from the initial public offering IPO in the first half of 2007 .
Of the total , Rp188.3 billion 70 percent was used for credit expansion , Rp44 billion 15 percent for network expansion , Rp26.9 billion 10 percent for hardware and software instruments , and Rp13.55 billion 5 percent for employees' training .
Indonesia's gross domestic product GDP is estimated to have grown by 6.2-6.4 percent in the first quarter of 2008 , fueled by an increase in public spending and production , an official said .
Viewed from the high consumption side , our economic growth is still good , Secretary of the State Minister for National Development Planning / Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency Bappenas Syahrial Loetan said at the weekend .
The GDP projection which was higher than Bank Indonesia the central bank's forecast of 6.1 percent was also based on the assumption that the US recession and global slowdown had no significant impact on the Indonesian economy , he said .
It the impact will likely be noticeable only in the second quarter .
But we remain optimistic the GDP growth rate target of 6 percent can be achieved at the end of this year , he said .
Meanwhile , Bambang Prijambodo , director of macro planning at the Office of State Minister for National Development Planning / Bappenas , said the GDP forecast was also reflected by the high sales in the retail sector , cement expenditures , import of capital goods , an increase in consumption credits and investment , strong export growth , particularly the export of non-oil / gas commodities expected to grow by 24.8 percent .
Data from the agency show among the key drivers of rising public expenditures were the rise in motorcycle sales which increased by 36 percent from a year earlier , real index of retail sales in February which grew by 12 percent on a yearly basis and consumption credits which jumped by more than 200 percent from the first quarter of 2007 .
The agency also noted investment rose by 2.2 percent , cement sales by 16.8 percent , import of capital goods by 102.5 percent , investment credits channeled by banks by up to Rp8.1 trillion , and credits channeled by banks as working capital by five folds from a year earlier .
On a yearly basis , export revenues rose by 31.4 percent and import revenues by 49 percent with non-oil / gas imports growing by 17.1 percent and the number of tourist arrivals to Indonesia rising by 15.7 percent from a year earlier .
The GDP growth of more than 6 percent indicated that the Indonesian economy was still promising amidst the current economic turbulence , Harry Azhar Aziz , deputy chairman of the House's budgetary committee , said .
But the growth is still worrying because it relies on the consumption sector that may expose it to inflationary pressures , he said .
The rupiah moved closer to Rp9,300 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday evening as investors were worried about the looming public opposition to the government's plan to raise fuel oil prices .
The public protests against the government's plan to raise fuel prices have prompted investors to buy up dollars and this caused the greenback to strengthen , money market observer Edwin Sinaga said on Monday .
The rupiah weakened by 20 points to Rp9,260 / 9,270 on Monday evening from Rp9,240 / 9,254 per dollar at the weekend .
The current crude price spiral was a global issue that was forcing almost all countries , including Indonesia , to raise their fuel prices , and , therefore , the government's plan to raise fuel prices early next month was inevitable , he said .
The increase in fuel oil prices would put pressure on the rupiah which was expected to hit Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
We believe the rupiah will continue to drop .
But when it reaches a level of Rp9,300 per dollar , Bank Indonesia the central bank is likely to intervene in the money market to prevent it from depreciating further , he said .
He said the central bank had foreign exchange reserves large enough to keep the rupiah at a safe level .
The planned fuel oil price hikes would lead to a higher inflation rate that might prompt the central bank to raise again its key rate which currently stood at 8.25 percent , he said .
He predicted the money market would be sluggish in the next few days as investors tended to refrain from making transactions for fear of a massive rejection of the planned fuel price hikes .
The government believes the Indonesian economy will remain prospective in the next two years despite a global economic slowdown , a Finance Ministry official said .
The Indonesian economy will remain prospective in the 2008-2009 period in which it will expand by a range of 6-6.5 percent due to strong domestic demand and investment , Anggito Abimanyu , chief of the ministry's fiscal policy board BKF , said here on Wednesday .
The country's economic fundamentals would remain sound as reflected by Bank Indonesia the central bank's stable interest rate , the rupiah's stable exchange rate against the dollar and the rise in foreign exchange reserves , he said .
Realizing that the rise in food commodity prices would put pressure on inflation rate , the government would make every effort to prevent it from affecting the poor or the state budget , he said .
The soaring global crude prices which led to an increase in fuel subsidy had drawn the government's attention , he said .
The government was in the middle of formulating strategies to allocate fuel subsidy in a proper possible way , he said .
In addition , the government was also studying a number of options with regard to fuel subsidy to create fiscal balance , he said .
The government realized whatever policies it had taken in relation to fuel subsidy would not satisfy all sides , he said .
Under the uncertain economic conditions , fiscal responsibility should top the list of the country's priorities , he said .
If the strategy of adjusting fuel prices and compensating the poor for the rise in food prices was carried out properly , the vast majority of the Indonesian people would accept a change in fuel subsidy scheme and this would in the end raise the market's confidence in the Indonesian economy , he said .
Publicly-listed plantation company PT Bakrie Sumatra Plantations Tbk at its general shareholders meeting on Wednesday decided to pay out a dividend of Rp17 per share .
The total amount of dividends to be distributed is equal to 30 percent of the company's net profit totaling Rp206.6 billion in 2007 .
The dividends will be paid out to shareholders on July 10 , 2008 at the latest , the company's president director , Ambono Janurianto , said here Wednesday .
The meeting also decided to reappoint incumbent members of the board of directors with Ambono Janurianto as president director and increase the number of members of the board of commissioners by appointing former agriculture minister Bungaran Saragih .
Mining company PT Aneka Tambang Tbk Antam has temporarily ceased granite exploration operations on Piatu Hill in Kijang Bintan district , Riau Islands , after being officially informed the hill lies in a preserved forest area .
After receiving a Forestry Minister's circular issued in October 2007 , we sent a letter on April 25 to our partner in the project , PT Mitra Investindo Tbk , to stop the explorations , Antam's corporate secretary , Bimo Budi Satriyo , said here Friday .
Bimo said the granite exploration area had become subject to a governmental investigation so continuing the exploration activity would make Antam as the concession-holder liable to legal sanctions .
PT Caraka later merged with PT Siwani Trimitra Tbk into a company which later became known as PT Mitra Investindo Tbk MITI while Antam's contract with PT Caraka was eventually taken over by MITI .
The exploration contract was valid from June 11 , 2004 through June 10 , 2009 .
Now we are waiting for the result of the governmental investigation and the rechecking on the forest borders .
Therefore , the future of the ANTAM-MITI cooperation is still unclear .
Of course , we will adhere to the rules , Bimo said .
He said , the temporary cessation of exploration activity would not have a significant impact on the company's income as granite was not its core business .
Under the cooperation agreement , Antam would get a S $ 0,35 fee on every ton of granite mined .
With a monthly granite production of 50,000 tons , the company would earn some S $ 17,500 per month or some S $ 210,000 per year from the granite mining venture .
The rupiah edged closer to Rp9,300 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Wednesday evening following a rush on the greenback prior to the government's decision to raise fuel prices .
The on-going student rallies to protest against the planned fuel price hike worried investors so they bought up dollard , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega , said on Wednesday .
The rupiah weakened by 37 points to Rp9,295 / 9,310 per dollar on Wednesday from Rp9,258 / 9,277 the day before .
He predicted the rupiah was likely to weaken to more than Rp9,300 per dollar prompting Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI to intervene in the money market .
BI had foreign exchange reserves large enough to prevent the local unit from depreciating further , he said .
For the time being , the rupiah was under market pressure , he said adding the pressure would increase if global crude prices rose again .
Another pressure on the rupiah was the weak regional share market triggered by a drop in the Wall Street's index , he said .
He said the government's plan to raise fuel prices by up to 30 percent would have a negative impact on economic growth which had been projected at 6 percent for this year .
The unfavorable condition would affect the people's purchasing power and consequently , many investors would invest their capital abroad , he said .
The government plans to raise fuel prices in late May to ease pressure on the state budget from the upward trend in global crude prices .
Suzuki motor-vehicle producer PT Indomobil Suzuki Internasional said it had yet to lower its sales target in the face of the government's plan to raise fuel oil prices in June 2008 .
Our sales target does not change .
Our targets for cars and motor-cycles are 80,000 units and 900,000 units respectively in 2008 , PT Indomobil Suzuki Internasional President Director Subronto Laras said here on Wednesday .
He said during the first four months of 2008 , when prices of basic necessaries were on the increase , demand for motor vehicles was still high .
There is exceptional demand .
Suzuki motorcycle sales reached 250,000 units , he said .
In spite of this fact , however , Subronto said his company would continue to anticipate various possibilities that could happen after fuel oil prices were hiked in June , 2008 .
We will see the conditions first .
We can just take anticipative steps in the form of delaying the marketing of new brand like the 2,400 cc Grand Vitara which consumes fuel more wasteful then its previous generation , he said .
The same thing could also apply to ' matic scooter ' motorcycle which is more two times fuel wasteful than that of the ' bebek ' type , whose price is lower .
In the last two years , demand for ' matic ' scooter motorcycles increased 25 percent of total Suzuki motorcycle sales .
This has caught our attention to see whether fuel oil price hikes would change the market's behavior , Subronto said .
He hoped that the impact of fuel oil price increases could well be anticipated because the current conditions were different from those when the government raised fuel oil prices in 2005 .
At that time , sales dropped 40 percent .
The impact this year at least is expected on the industry , he added .
Prediction that this year the impact of fuel oil price hikes would not as worse as those in 2005 was also voiced by president director of Bank Mandiri , Agus Martowardojo .
Because the price increase in 2005 was 100 percent , all sectors of businesses felt its impact , though world oil price at that time was only US $ 60 per barrel , he said .
Senior Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank Miranda S. Goeltom said she strongly believed the expected high inflation rate due to the increase in fuel oil prices can last for a shorter period than that in 2005 .
We strongly believe that if all government policies are in tandem with BI's policies , the duration of the high inflation rate as the impact of the increase in fuel oil prices can be shorthened , Miranda said here Thursday .
She said the high inflation rate as the impact of the increase in fuel oil prices in 2005 by more than 100 percent abated only after three to four months .
That the fuel oil price hike would indeed bring about a high annual inflation rate , but we believe this time the duration of the high inflation rate can be shortened compared with that in 2005 , she said .
Asked how big the impact of the 28.7 percent increase in the fuel oil prices on the inflation rate would be , Miranda said it would depend on the first effect only in terms of the increase in the fuel oil prices or the second effect .
We should remember that monetary policies will not react to the current or past inflation rates but we react to the inflation expectation .
We will make the necessary policies to minimize the possible impacts in the future , she said .
On the possibility of BI making tight monetary policies by increasing the interest rate , she said BI would make the necessary monetary policies , adding that the expected policies would depend on the latest information .
We know that if the inflation rate continues to rise and the central bank gives no signal that it will be able to maintain the inflation rate well , it will have an impact on the economy , she said .
She admitted that the latest information showed inflationary pressures would continue .
The high inflation rate in the world had yet to abate and the world's economic conditions were still uncertain .
We will take all variables into account before making a decision .
What the decision will be , just until next month , she said .
The bond , the second of its kind to be issued this year , would carry a coupon of 10.375-10.875 percent payable every quarter , the company's president director , Wahzary Wardaya , said on Wednesday .
The company had appointed PT Danareksa Sekuritas , PT Citigroup Securities Indonesia and PT Trimegah Securities as bond issue underwriters , he said .
PT Danareksa posted a net profit of Rp98 billion last year .
In the first semester of 2007 , the company's net profit jumped four-fold to Rp83 billion from the pevious semester thanks to a Rp219.4 billion increase in operational income .
Indonesia's monthly inflation rose 0.72 percent in July , bringing the calender inflation rate to 2.81 percent and the year-on-year inflation rate to 6.06 percent , Central Bureau of Statistics BPS chief Rusman Heriawan said on Wednesday .
But he added he believed the country could hit the full-year inflation target of 6 percent at the end of this year as the year-on-year inflation figure stood at 6.06 percent .
So , we are focusing on the year-on-year inflation rate which still reaches 6.06 percent .
If the patterns remain the same as in previous years when inflationary pressures occurred in September and October , we will certainly stick to the inflation target of 6 percent , he said .
The fairly high inflation rate was caused by annual patterns like in the previous year due to the start of the academic year and a significant increase in the prices of foodstuffs , he said .
The prices of foodstuffs contributed 1.35 percent and education , recreation and sports 2.89 percent to July's inflation rate , he said .
The annual cycle is educational costs as July is the start of academic year .
The monthly inflation rates in July 2006 and July 2005 were respectively 0.46 percent and 0.78 percent , he said .
The price of purebred chicken meat rose 8.86 percent due to limited supplies , contributing 0.13 percent to the monthly inflation rate , he said .
A 6.32 percent rise in the prices of egg and a 1.4 percent increase in the prices of fresh fish contributed 0.04 percent and 0.06 percent respectively to the inflation , he said .
Meanwhile , educational costs at the elementary school , junior high school and senior high school levels rose 10 percent , 8.4 percent and 4.5 percent respectively , adding another 0.07 percent , 0.05 percent and 0.04 percent to the overall rate , he said .
He predicted that educational costs would remain the source of inflation in August when the academic year for institutes of higher learning began .
July's inflation was also fueled by a 1.7 percent rise in the prices of cooking oil and a 8.5 percent increase in security costs which contributed 0.02 percent and 0.03 percent respectively to the overall rate , he said .
He said last month's core inflation rate clocked in at 0.71 percent , bringing the core calender inflation to 2.83 percent and the core year-on-year inflation to 5.75 percent .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI decided Thursday to keep its key rate at 8.25 percent for the third month in a row while still carefully considering the impact of the subprime mortgage turmoil despite the country's improving macro economic conditions and the rupiah's stable exchange rate .
The meeting of Bank Indonesia's board of governors today decided to maintain the BI Rate at 8.25 percent after making a comprehensive evaluation of the prospects of the inflation rate in 2007 , and projected economic developments where the impact of the sub prime mortgage turmoil is still felt , Budi Mulia , director of the central bank's strategic planning and public relations , said .
He said BI would keep monitoring the impact of the subprime mortgage turmoil and the possibility of the US economic slowdown affecting the Indonesian economy .
The central bank was upbeat that the country could hit the full-year inflation target of 6 , plus and minus 1 , percent for this year , he said .
BI noted the consumer price index inflation in August rose to an on-year 6.51 percent from 6.06 percent a month earlier .
Meanwhile , the bank put core inflation which excludes volatile food prices and administered fuel prices , at a yearly 5.66 percent in August compared to 5.75 percent in the month before .
The increase in August's inflation was chiefly fueled by a rise in the prices of volatile foods with cooking oil , eggs and rice contributing the most to the inflation figure , he said .
He said BI also noted the increase in the administered prices of commodities such as kerosene contributed to last month's inflation .
The central bank estimated the economy would expand 6.2 percent in the third quarter of 2007 .
The growth will be driven by exports , private consumption and investment .
Investment will increase as a result of investors' optimism and financing support , he said .
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boediono said Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI's decision to cut its benchmark rate by another 25 basis points to 8.75 percent matches the country's current macro economic conditions .
It the interest rate policy is in line with the declining inflation rate , the rupiah's stable exchange rate , and the strong foreign investment inflows .
I think the policy is on the right track , he said following a limited cabinet meeting here on Thursday .
The drop in the key rate known as BI Rate was expected to lead to a positive sentiment which would eventually speed up the growth of the real sector , he said .
Meanwhile , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati expressed hope that the government-set inflation rate target of 6 percent for 2007 could be achieved , thereby it provided a leeway for the BI Rate to drop further .
However , she added the drop in the benchmark rate would still have no impact on the target of the deficit in the 2007 state budget as government spending would also increase .
Interest rate will fall and accordingly , interest spending and exchange rate for several instalments on foreign debts will drop .
But several spending will also increase , she said .
The House of Representatives DPR on Tuesday passed a bill on the third amendment to the 1983 law on general taxation arrangements and procedures into law .
Only the National Mandate Party PAN faction agreed to the passage of the bill into law with reservations .
Chief of the PAN faction Zulkifli Hasan said his faction had objections to the term ' taxpayer ' which it said did not give equal treatment to tax officials , the creation of a tax-receiving agency to replace the Directorate General of Taxes , and the process of filing taxpayers' objections and appeals over tax assessments .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said she was fully aware of the faction's objections , adding the government was convinced that the process of filing objections and appeals over tax assessments would instead protect taxpayers' rights and ensure a sense of justice for taxpayers .
On the fear of potential losses , the government has made objective and careful calculations that no state receipts will be lost but the process may only lead to a delay in state receipts , she said .
Under the newly-amended law , taxpayers may have a small chance of applying for deferred tax payments by filing objections or appeals over tax assessments for fear that they would be subject to 50 percent fines if their objections were rejected and 100 percent fines if their appeals were turned down , she said .
On the faction's objection to the creation of a tax receiving agency , she said the government opined that the method of managing state receipts and expenditures still needed to be revised and hormonized as well as coordinated and improved administrative and operational procedures under one-stop service to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the method .
The minister said the term ' taxpayer ' was not identical to tax depositor because the former covered tax withholder , tax collector and tax depositor .
A change in the term will have a fairly significant impact as the term ' taxpayer ' is already widely known .
So , if we replace it with ' tax depositor ' it will take a long time to popularize it , she said .
She agreed with the Golkar Party faction's proposal for the formation of a taxation committee as an independent supervisory institute responsible to the finance minister .
The government is aware of this view .
Hopefully , the creation of this taxation supervisory commission will curb abuse and misappropriation of taxes withheld , she said .
The Indonesian government has lowered its global oil price assumption in the revised 2007 state budget from US $ 63 to US $ 60 per barrel despite an upward trend in the global oil price .
Yes , that is the best thing to do .
Basically , what we have discussed in the revised state budget are the best throughout this year , Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Boedino said after installing 21 second echelon officials here Wednesday .
He said global oil prices always fluctuated all the time so it was not easy to predict an annual average oil price .
We stick to the average price in the revised state budget for this year .
About the realization , let's wait as we are still in the middle of the year , he said .
In lowering the global oil price assumption , he said the government had certainly considered oil subsidy , kerosene subsidy in particular .
The price of Indonesia's crude oil reached its lowest level early this year but moved up to US $ 69.14 a barrel in June 2007 .
The Finance Ministry predicted the price of Indonesian crude in the global market averaged US $ 62.93 a barrel in the first half of 2007 .
The average price of Indonesian crude is expected to reach US $ 58.6 a barrel in the second semester and US $ 60 a barrel throughout this year , or US $ 3 lower than the initial assumption of US $ 63 a barrel in the 2007 state budget .
The government has issued state bonds worth Rp773.023 trillion until July 17 this year , consisting of tradable notes worth Rp512.590 trillion and non-tradable notes worth Rp260.433 trillion .
The state bonds represented a 0.8 percent drop compared to the period ended on June 27 , 2007 when they reached Rp779.048 trillion , the Directorate General of Debt Management at the Finance Ministry said in its official website on Wednesday .
The tradable bonds comprised long-term bonds worth Rp499.174 trillion , retail bonds worth Rp9.516 trillion and short-term bonds worth Rp3.9 trillion .
It said fixed-rate bonds issued until July 17 reached Rp591.489 trillion , including US dollar-denominated bonds worth Rp63.770 trillion .
The fixed-rate bonds accounted for 60.21 percent of the total .
Variable-rate bonds reached Rp177.633 trillion or 38.92 percent of the total , while zero-coupon bonds stood at Rp3.9 trillion or 0.87 percent of the total .
It said a number of state bonds would mature between 2007 and 2009 .
The state bond that will fall due on Sept 25 , 2007 will be series VR0012 bond worth Rp4.850 trillion .
The state bonds that will become due in 2008 will reach Rp30.848 trillion , namely series FR0041 bond worth Rp1.1 trillion due on Nov 15 , series VR0013 bond worth Rp7.771 trillion due on Jan 25 , series VR0014 bond worth Rp9.272 trillion due on Aug 25 , series VR0015 bond worth Rp8.805 trillion due on Dec 25 and series SPN 2008052801 bond worth Rp3.9 trillion due on May 28 .
The state bonds that will mature in 2009 will reach Rp31.275 trillion , namely series FR0002 bond worth Rp15.602 trillion due on June 15 , series ORI001 bond worth Rp3.283 trillion due on Aug 9 , series VR0016 bond worth Rp9.434 trillion due on July 25 , and series SU-005 bond worth Rp2.956 trillion due on Dec 10 .
PT Holcim Indonesia Tbk SMCB , a cement producer , suffered a significant drop in its net profit in the first semester of 2007 , the company said in a report .
Holcim's net profit in the first half of 2007 decreased significantly by 95.8 percent compared to that in the same period last year .
However , during the period under review , its sales grew by 16.6 percent to Rp1.608 trillion , according to a report on Holcim's financial performance released on Tuesday
In the first semester of 2007 , Holcim gained a net profit of Rp5.76 billion only , a sharp decrease from last year's net profit in the same period last year when the figure was Rp139.13 billion .
The lower profit was among other things due to an increase in interest costs , exchange rate losses , and severance pay burden coast which all added up to Rp123.458 billion .
Around 77 percent of the shares of Holcim which was previously known as Cibinong Cement are currently owned by Holdervin BV .
Foreign ownership of rupiah-denominated state bonds in June 2007 rose 47.6 percent to Rp81.78 trillion from Rp55.40 trillion in June 2006 but fell 2 percent from Rp83.48 trillion in May 2007 , the Finance Ministry said .
On the contrary , state banks' ownership in June 2007 fell 3.1 percent to Rp148.79 trillion from Rp153.68 trillion in June 2006 but rose 1.7 percent from Rp146.30 trillion in May 2007 , the directorate general of treasury said in its official website on Tuesday .
Private banks' ownership dropped 4.9 percent to Rp77.72 trillion in June 2007 from Rp81.73 trillion in June 2006 but increased 4.14 percent from Rp74.63 trillion in May 2007 .
Mutual funds saw the highest increase in the ownership of local currency state bonds among non-bank financial institutions with 79.46 percent from Rp13.83 trillion in June 2006 to Rp24.82 trillion in June 2007 , followed by securities companies 20.58 percent from Rp340 billion to Rp410 billion , insurance companies 10.33 percent from Rp33.09 trillion to Rp36.51 trillion and pension funds 3.93 percent from Rp22.64 trillion to Rp23 trillion .
State banks took the lead by holding 32.71 percent of the total local currency state bonds as of June 2007 , followed by foreign investors 17.98 percent , private banks 17.08 percent , insurance companies 8.02 percent , mutual funds 5.45 percent , and pension funds 5.2 percent .
Overall , banks' ownership of rupiah-denominated state bonds stood at Rp261.86 trillion as of June 27 , 2007 , accounting for 57.57 percent of the total .
If combined with non-tradable securities and US dollar-denominated state bonds , the total value of state bonds issued by the government until June 27 , 2007 reached Rp779.048 trillion , up 1.10 percent from a month earlier .
Up to June 27 , 2007 , the amount of non-tradable securities reached Rp260.433 trillion .
State gas distributor PT PGN has revised downward its estimate of gas distribution for 2007 to 413 mmscfd millions metric standard cubic feet per day from 453 mmscfd .
In addition , many new gas subscribers were still unable to use gas optimally according to their contracts , he said .
The low gas consumption was also partly caused by the distribution pipelines which are now under the process of completion , he said .
Actually , the gas supplies from the Pagardewa field to the South Sumatra-West Java pipelines reached 130 mmscfd in August 2007 but the customers' gas consumption only averaged 104 mmscfd , he said .
Bank Indonesia central bank on Thursday decided to cut its benchmark rate by another 25 basis points to 8.5 percent after considering the prospects for the government's effort to attain the inflation rate target of 6-5 , plus and minus 1 , percent for 2008 .
The Finance Deposit Ratio FDR of syariah banking in the same period also reached over 100 percent , far in excess of the Loan to Deposit Ratio LDR which was about 70 percent , the central bank governor said .
Seeing the development of syariah banking in the country , the President said he wanted to see the bills on syariah banking and on national syariah promissary notes passed into law immediately .
The government and the House of Representatives want to finalize the two bills on time because they can help strengthen the syariah financial industry in the country , he said .
Funding for UMKMs in November 2007 reached Rp19 trillion or two times the amount of funds for non-UMKMs which stood at Rp7.9 trillion , he said .
? PT Antam plans to buy back its shares from the capital market and a team has been appointed to study it .
We indeed plan to conduct a buyback but we do not know how many shares we would buy back and at what price .
Let us just wait for the result of the study which is expected to finish by the end of November , its president director , Alwin Syah Loebis , said here on Tuesday .
Alwin said after the study was finished the company would ask for an approval from the shareholders through a shareholders general meeting .
When asked if the company had asked for an approval from the state minister for state-owned firms he said net yet .
We will discuss it with the minister later , he said .
As it is generally known the price of Antam shares at the capital market has continued to drop in the past six months in line with the decreasing price of nickel which is the main product of the company .
In the first semester this year the company's net profit also dropped by more than 40 percent .
In the trading on Tuesday the price of Antam shares was closed at Rp1,050 per share or up Rp30 per share .
In the morning trading the shares were traded at Rp910 per share .
He said when the price of Antam shares were declining while it stood at Rp1,800 per share , the management had already planned to conduct a buyback .
At the time however we just embarked on a serious step towards it .
Regarding the funds for the plan , Alwin declined to elaborate telling only
what is clear is we have internal funds totalling US $ 360 million .
Meanwhile now is actually the time for the company to do it .
Indeed the price of the Antam shares is now low but to buy them back we still need to conduct a study and an approval from the shareholders , he said .
PT Indofood Sukses Makmur INDF has bought 100 percent of Drayton Pte Ltd Drayton's shares , including Drayton shareholders' claims amounting to US $ 100.5 million , an INDF spokesperson said .
On September 22,2008 , INDF signed a conditional sales-and - purchase agreement with Pastila Investment Limited on 100 percent of Drayton's shares , including US $ 100.5 million worth of shareholders' claims , Marianty Setiawan , INDF's corporate secretary , said here Tuesday .
She said Drayton was a Singaporean company controlling 68.57 percent of Indolakto shares which would be acquired by INDF .
Indolakto was a producer of milk and milk products circulating in Indonesian markets under such brand names as Indomilk , Cap Enaak , Tiga Sapi , Orchid Butter and Indoeskrim .
The transaction to acquire Indolakto was valued at US $ 350 million of which 15 percent US $ 52,5 million would be paid at the signing of the purchase agreement and the rest US $ 297.5 million on the settlement date which would be seven days after fulfillment of all acquisition terms .
Setiawan said the funds for the acquisition would come from internal sources and a bank loan .
We plan to complete the acquisition process in December 2008 , she said .
She also said the transaction was a material one and thus it had to be approved by an INDF extraordinary general shareholders' meeting .
Director General of Debt Management at the Finance Ministry Rahmat Waluyanto said here Wednesday Indonesia still had good chances to get soft loans from several countries to overcome its State Budget deficit .
As long as we have good programs to be sponsored such as poverty reduction , corruption eradication , climate change , education , and health , I believe many parties will be interested to help Indonesia by giving soft loans with milder terms and conditions said Rahmat at the finance ministry building .
For example , he said , France , through the French Development Agency AFD , had this year given loans to the Regional Budgets APBDs through the climate change program .
Indonesia itself had a policy matrix in relation to the program so that the AFD gave soft loan commitments amounting to US $ 200 million .
The authorities had been proposing an addition of another US $ 100 million so that this year's loan could be US $ 300 million .
This is beyond our own estimates , he said .
Rahmat also said several parties such as the Japan Bank for International Cooperation JBIC , Germany , Italy , and England were also still interested to give financial aid to Indonesia .
They are still interested although they may give the assistance in the form of swap deals instead of loans .
Therefore , I think we still have good prospects to fund our State Budget , he said .
State Enterprises Minister Sofyan Djalil said the government would complete the divestment of 82.7 percent of the shares of Bank Indonesia the central bank in PT Bahana Pembinaan Usaha Indonesia before the end of this year .
The divestment of Bank Indonesia BI shares in Bahana must be accomplished this year so that BI , in line with the law , will no longer have shares in the company , Djalil said at his office .
He said negotiations on the matter were still continuing with two options on offer , namely selling the shares to the government and / or giving them to the government as a grant .
The settlement of the problem also depends on the financial condition of PT Bahana , he said .
According to records PT Bahana is now facing financial difficulties because of its debt to the government totaling Rp369.4 billion and US $ 98 million .
The company had asked for the restructuring several times including asking to set-off its Investment Fund Account debt with compensation funds .
PT Bahana received a loan from the government's Investment Fund Account on December 16 , 1998 totaling Rp250 billion .
When it was due the company failed to pay the principal , interest and fines due .
Djalil said the essence of the problem was releasing the BI shares because in line with the law the central bank had to release its ownership in sister companies that were not in line with the bank's tasks .
BI wants to respect the law and the BI law also states that the problem has to be settled before 2009 , he said .
The minister said the question whether the shares would be sold or presented to the government as as grant was now still being worked out .
The BI governor has sent a letter to the finance minister telling that in principle BI would release its ownership in Bahana .
So there has not yet been any agreement , he said .
Regarding the possibility of BI choosing to sell the shares to the government , he said the government does not have the money for it .
Publicly listed property firm PT Bakrieland Development Tbk ELTY is seeking to issue share bonds sukuk worth Rp200 billion-Rp300 billion next year to finance a number of its city property projects .
It is true that we plan to issue sharia bonds .
The plan is still under consideration , ELTY President Director Hiramsyah S. Thaib said here on Friday .
He said the value of the sharia bonds would not be as high as that of the conventional bonds the company issued some time ago .
In March 2008 , the company issued two types of conventional bonds worth Rp500 billion payable in three years and five years each .
He said the company would use proceeds from the planned issuance of sharia bonds to finance a number of projects including Bogor Nirwana Residence BNR , Ijen Nirwana Residence in Malang , East Java , and Batam Nirwana Residence in Batam .
Through the cooperation , ELTY would sell stakes in its subsidiaries to the foreign investors , he said .
In the first phase , the company planned to sell a 30 percent stake in its subsidiary carrying out the BNR project in Bogor , West Java , he said .
The rupiah strengthened to Rp9,385 / 9,390 against the US dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Friday morning after investors bought the local unit on signals Bank Indonesia BI will extend repurchase agreement repo facilities .
The central bank has hinted it will extend three-month repo facilities to make them more attractive to curb tight market liquidity .
Foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said market liquidity pressure had gradually faded following the central bank's plan to extend the repo facilities .
We are optimistic local investors will still eye the rupiah until this evening so that it will leave the level of Rp9,400 per dollar far behind , he said .
It was still rather difficult for the rupiah to further appreciate as investors were focusing their attention on the US greenback's strengthening in the global market despite worries about the US economic growth , he said .
The Indonesian currency tumbled to nearly Rp9,500 per dollar in recent weeks due in part to a financial crisis in the US and Europe prompting foreign investors to buy up the dollar , he said .
The dollar is strengthening amidst investors' worries about continued financial turmoil in the US .
The euro fell to 1.4348 from 1.4323 against the dollar .
The US greenback also appreciated agaiunst the yen to 105.37 from 104.56 previously .
Three of five coal mining companies which the government recently reprimanded for failing to pay royalties for many years were on Friday reported to have honored their obligations .
Soepomo , the finance ministry's director of multifarious state wealth , said here Friday the companies that had fulfilled their royatly paying obligations were PT Kideco Jaya Agung Rp110 billion , PT Adaro Indonesia Rp150 billion and PT Berau Coal Rp90 billion .
Kideco and Adaro made the payment yesterday and Berau Coal this afternoon , Soepomo said .
Kideco , Adaro and Berau were among five coal companies that had previously refused to pay the royalties on the ground the government had yet to disburse tax restitutions to which they were entitled .
But the government had told the companies the royalties issue was not linked to the tax restitution problem and therefore they were expected to pay the royalties as soon as possible .
The government had also said it would try to solve both problems at the same time by asking the companies to pay a warranty of Rp600 billion and the Development Finances ComptrollerBPKP to conduct audits on the royalties and tax restitution claims .
The two other coal companies owing royalties to the government --- PT Kaltim Prima Coal KPC and PT Arutmin -- had already promised to meet their obligations , Soepomo said .
Soepomo declined to answer when asked what the government would do if the two companies had not paid the royallties by September 19 .
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said Friday the current global liquidity crisis has only led to a 0.1 percent drop in Indonesia's gross domestic product GDP .
Indonesia is one of the Asian countries recording the lowest declines in GDP , he told the press after Friday prayers at his office here .
The decline in Indonesia's GDP to 6.3 percent from 6.4 percent previously was not sharp compared to the economic setbacks in the United States , European countries , Japan , China , India and Thailand which were all directly affected by the liquidity crisis , he said .
As the largest exporting country , China saw a 2 percent drop in its GDP , he said .
The global liquidity crisis was having a small impact on Indonesia's GDP because , unlike many developed nations , Indonesia had not placed capital in US financial institutions such as Lehman Brothers and AIG , he said .
He added , however , the liquidity crisis would reduce US investment in Indonesia and depress the prices of Indonesia's exports to the US .
Commenting on the fall in global crude prices , the vice president said he could as yet not say whether it would have an impact on the fuel subsidy provided for in the 2008 state budget .
The global crude prices are still fluctuating above US $ 100 per barrel Last night they fell to US $ 97 a barrel .
Meanwhile , the assumed oil price in the state budget is based on the average crude price .
In addition , the amount of oil subsidy set in the state budget is Rp150 trillion , he said .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said 12 of the country's 33 provinces in the first half of 2008 recorded a higher-than-national economic growth rate of 6.4 percent .
The regional economic growth is one of the yardsticks for the success of the national economic development , the president said in his address on the government's explanations on regional development policies at the plenary session of the Regional Representative Council DPD here on Friday .
Even some of the provinces including Riau Islands , Central Kalimantan , South Kalimantan and Central Sulawesi saw an economic growth rate of more than 8.5 percent , he said .
The achievement is worthy of praise .
I hope that the provinces can maintain the achievement , he said .
Viewed from even distribution , the regional economic growth in the past four years was also encouraging , he said .
In 2002 , the even distribution index stood at 0.72 and fell to 0.56 in 2007 , he said .
The drop in the index suggested that economic activities among provinces in the country had increasingly become balanced , he said .
It is the common responsibility of us , either at a central or regional level , to always maintain the synergy of national development in order to be able to create fair economic conditions , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI Governor Boediono said on Friday the rupiah is weakening against the US dollar because of a global phenomenon in which the greenback is strengthening against almost all other world currencies .
So this is a market movement .
I think there is no problem when it comes to fundamentals , he said .
The dollar was strengthening against other world currencies as many perceived the US economy would perform better than those of the rest of the world , he said .
The BI governor said the rupiah's fall on Friday which was higher than any other countries' constituted a change in the rupiah's appreciation over the past few weeks .
This is because over the past few weeks the rupiah strengthened at a higher pace than any other currency , he said .
The central bank would always monitor the money market to stabilize the rupiah's exchange rate , he said .
We will remain in the money market to reduce the money market's volatility , he said .
The rupiah plunged to Rp9,350 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Friday as demand for the US greenback kept rising throughout the day .
Demand for the dollar rose due to a fall in global crude prices to US $ 107 per barrel , causing the rupiah to plunge , Retail Banking Director of PT Bank Mega Tbk. Kostaman Thayib said here Friday .
The negative market upheaval would prompt the rupiah to fall to up to Rp9,400 per dollar , he said .
We believe the rupiah will fall to nearly Rp9,400 per dollar , he said .
He said Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI would likely intervene in the money market to prevent the local unit from falling further .
BI would release funds from its foreign exchange reserves .
Otherwise , it would be difficult to control the rupiah's continuing fall , he said .
From the standpoint of economic fundamentals , the government did not have any problem .
With the recent drop in global crude prices , the economy would grow at a faster pace , he said .
We believe the rupiah is falling because of panic in the market following a drop in global crude prices , he said .
Market pressures grew stronger after fund managers released their shares in the capital market and bought the US greenback to offset the losses they had suffered .
BI has raised its benchmark interest rate to 9.25 percent from 9 percent previously to curb the accelerating inflation rate expected to reach 12 percent this year , he said .
Actually , the rise in the key rate had nothing to do with the rupiah's depreciation .
The Indonesian currency fell due to an outflow of foreign capital , he said .
The Indonesian government should change its foreign exchange reserve management system to improve the country's competitive edge and productivity and enable it to withstand global economic turmoils , an economist said .
Executive Director of the Econit Economic Research Institute Henri Saparini was responding to the country's economic capability in the face of the looming economic slowdown in the United States and Europe and the rupiah's continuous weakening against the US dollar .
According to Bank Indonesia BI , the country's foreign exchange reserves in the month ended on August 31 , 2008 stood at US $ 58.4 billion , down nearly 2 percent from a month earlier .
The central bank said the government's efforts to stabilize the rupiah and repay debts and global pressure due to economic slowdown and accelerating inflation were responsible for the drop in the foreign exchange reserves .
Henri said the country's foreign exchange reserves did not reflect the real conditions because they were driven by hot money , particularly an inflow of foreign funds as a result of soaring commodity prices in the global market and proceeds from the issuance of state bonds .
The government wants to prevent an outflow of the funds by raising the benchmark interest rate BI Rate to curb the stubbornly high inflation rates at the expense of the real sector's growth , he said .
Because of the higher lending rates , the business world must spend more on their operations and consequently , the real sector was growing at a slow pace , he said .
To cope with inflationary pressures , the government had since 2007 been using monetary approaches by raising the BI Rate .
However , the inflation rates surpassed the target and could not be curbed , he said .
To curb inflation , we can just control the prices of goods and services as well as the distribution of goods , he said .
The government estimates the deficit in the 2008 state budget will be lower than 1.9 percent of the country's gross domestic product GDP due in part to a recent drop in global crude prices .
The drop in global crude prices coupled with a rise in the rupiah's exchange rate will have a good impact on state revenues in rupiah , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here on Friday night .
She said the drop in global crude prices would have a positive impact on the state budget in that it would reduce the country's oil subsidy .
So the 2008 state budget deficit will possibly not be as high as 2.1 percent or 1.9 percent of GDP , she said .
The minister said the drop in global crude prices and the rise in state receipts in rupiah laid a basis for the 2008 state budget to remain secure until the end of this year .
With the higher state receipts in rupiah , the Directorate General of Debt Managment does not need to issue state debentures in larger amounts , she said .
In the revised 2008 state budget , the government had set the budget deficit at 2.1 percent of GDP or Rp94.3 trillion with state expenditures estimated at Rp989.3 trillion and state revenues and grants at Rp895 trillion .
The revised 2008 state budget also set the assumed economic growth rate at 6.4 percent , on-year inflation rate at 6.5 percent , interest on Bank Indonesia short-term promissory notes for three-month deposits at 7.5 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar at Rp9,100 , oil price at US $ 95 per barrel and oil production at 927,000 barrels per day .
But in its midyearly report delivered to the House of Representatives DPR , the government projected the 2008 budget deficit at 1.9 percent of GDP or Rp90.55 trillion with state expenditures estimated at Rp1,097.60 trillion and state revenues and grants at Rp1,007.05 trillion .
Publicly-listed oil company PT Energi Mega Persada Tbk ENRG has secured US $ 450 million in loans from Credit Suisse to repay its maturing debts , expand investment and strengthen its working capital .
We got the loans through our subsidiary , EMP Holdings Singapore Pte Ltd , ENRG President Director Christian V Ponto said in a press statement on Tuesday .
The remaining US $ 189.25 million would be used to finance the company's exploration activities and strengthen its working capital , he said .
We believe the loans are enough to settle all of our maturing debts and expedite production , he said .
He said the company's ratio of net debts to equities rose to 88 percent from 69 percent in the first semester of 2008 .
The figure is considered too low and can be well overcome , he said .
ENGR saw a 100 percent surge in its sales to Rp889 billion in the first half of 2008 from Rp444.19 billion in the same period last year on the back of a 65 percent rise in oil price to US $ 104 a barrel and a rise in oil and gas production to 24,600 ton a day from 24,400 tons a day .
After all , the company's net profit in the first semester of 2008 fell 40.97 percent to Rp77 billion from Rp130.5 billion a year earlier .
PT Charoen Pokphand Indonesia expects its net profit this year to reach Rp450 billion .
The company's vice president director , Thomas Effendy , said at a fast-breaking gathering here on Tuesday evening the profit was expected to come from production and sale price increases .
He said the figures were obtained from production of animal feed that would reach two million tons , day-old chickens 480 million and processed chickens 28,000 tons .
This year we plan to produce 2.3 million tons of animal feed while production of day old chickens is expected to rise 10 percent to around 528 millions .
Processing chickens meanwhile will grow the highest or more than 50 percent every year .
We are expecting production of processing chickens this year is around 42,000 tons , he said .
The animal feed producer has increased the capacity of its feedmills in Makassar and Lampung and expanded its breeding farm .
The project of increasing the capacity of two feedmills in Makassar and Lampung has been completed and the mills are already operating , he said .
Thomas hoped the rise in sales prices would help the achievement of the net profit target .
The price of animal feed at present is around Rp3,000 per kilogram .
Last year it was only around Rp2,000 per kilogram .
The price of day-old chickens this year has risen to around Rp3,000 per head , he said .
With these factors in mind , he said , he hoped the company's consolidated earnings would reach Rp12 trillion this year or rise by 40 percent from Rp8.7 trillion last year .
PT Aneka Tambang Tbk Antam will reduce in stages its dependence on nickel for its income and will start diversifying its industrial activity among others to coal mining , a company spokesman said .
At present , around 78 percent of our income is contributed by nickel products. In stages , we will reduce our dependence on nickel and next year we will have reduced it to 75 percent , Antam president director Alwin Syah Loebis said here on Tuesday night .
He said the price of several commodities including nickel had slumped because of the current turmoil in global stock markets .
The price of nickel at present was US $ 8.5 per pound which was burdensome to Antam although it was predicted to reach US $ 9 to US $ 10 per pound by the end of this year , he said .
In the first semester of this year the price enjoyed by Antam nickel was around Rp12.55 per pound or down 21.46 percent from the same period last year , he said .
To overcome the situation , he said , the company's management had to think hard. To assure its income it would take two big steps namely cutting up to 10 percent from the budgeted level the cost of production until the end of this year , he said .
This is really hard to do but we will do our best .
The second step meanwhile is increasing producion of ferronickel from currently 17,000 tons to 18,000 tons .
The aim is to maintain Antam's performance. Hopefully the price of nickel will not drop further , he said .
He said Antam also suffered from the drop in the price of gold .
Because of the bad market condition Antam would focus on only two projects , namely its Alumina Tayan and Pomala coal-fired power plant projects .
In the Alumina Tayan project Antam would invest a total of around US $ 500 million .
Antam would hold 65 percent of Alumina Tayan shares while the rest would belong to a Japanese investor .
He said Antam expected to pay its entire equity contribution early next year so that the project could reach operational state by the end of 2009 .
Antam's investment in a coal-fired power plant in Pomala would be around US $ 300 million. The financing of the project was expected to be settled in 2009 so that it could start operating in 2010 , he said .
If we produce more than is needed by the Pomala power plant , we will possibly sell the excess coal , he said
Bank Mandiri BMRI , the largest state-owned bank in terms of assets , has raised the ceiling of the non-cash loan NCL facility it has granted to cement maker PT Semen Padang to Rp150 billion from Rp75 billion previously , BMRI President Director Agus Martowardojo said .
Apart from raising the ceiling of the NCL facility , BMRI was also ready to provide Rp260 billion in funds for PT Semen Padang distributors to finance their bank guarantees and credit needs , Martowardojo said in a press statement issued here on Thursday .
BMRI will also provide Sub Limit Trust Receipt credits amounting to 50 percent of the NCL ceiling or Rp75 billion .
We believe that Semen Padang has the capability to return the loans as the company has shown its good reputation and financial performance , so that a Sub Limit Trust Receipt is very relevant and will support PT Semen Padang's cash flow management , he said .
Meanwhile , PT Semen Padang President Director E Irzal said his company was currently meeting 14 percent of the national demand for cement and 48 percent of Sumatra's need for cement .
The Central Bureau of Statistics BPS said it will announce the September 2008 inflation rate on October 6 , 2008 as the post fasting month festivities is to fall on October 1-2 , 2008 .
BPS Head Rusman Heriawan said here on Friday the September inflation rate would be calculated based on economic activities during the month .
On September 30 , all transactions in the runup to the Idul Fitri holidays could record extraordinary developments , he said .
Although it would be announced on October 6 , or five days later than usual , no data on the month's inflation would be leaked , the BPS chairman said .
We will also put the inflation rate in our website considering the fact that our data are also needed by people overseas , he added .
The president director of PT Bank Bukopin , Glen Glenardi , said here on Monday that Rabobank was one of the parties that had expressed interest in buying Bukopin shares .
Rabobank is one of the interested investors , but it has not decided how much it would buy as it is still scrutinizing the single presence policy , he said after a fast-breaking gathering .
He said Rabobank has already had shares in Bank Hagakita but it still had an interest in owning Bank Bukopin shares .
He said besides Rabobank there were also other investors who were interested in joining the company .
Many parties are interested , but they want to be majority shareholders , he said .
The bank's shareholders , meanwhile , Glen said , were expected to be able to increase the composition of their shares in stages and in terms of business recording progress .
The president director said the parties interested in buying Bukopin shares include a European consortium and foreign investors who wished to make the purchases through local securities market and others .
The House of Representatives DPR and the government agreed Thursday to a 20 percent cut in 2009 fuel subsidy to Rp100.6 trillion from a year earlier following a drop in global crude prices .
Fuel consumption in 2009 was projected at 36.9 million kiloliters , up 3 percent from 35.6 million kiloliters quoted in the revised 2008 state budget , the coordinator of the House's working committee for assumptions in the draft 2009 state budget , Harry Azhar Azis , said .
The fuel subsidy is for 19.4 million kiloliters of premium grade gasoline , 5.8 million kiloliters of kerosene , 11.6 million kiloliters of diesel oil , and gas equivalent to 4 million kiloliters of kerosene under the kerosene-to-gas conversion program , he said .
Electricity subsidy is still being discussed by the committee , he said .
Earlier , the committee also agreed to the assumed oil production of 960,000 barrels per day for 2009 .
Vice president director of state cement maker PT Semen Gresik , Heru P Adiningrat , said here Thursday the company would need around US $ 300 million next year in connection with its plan to build new factories .
So it will be around US $ 300 million , he said during a fast-breaking gathering .
He said the need could be met by banks or other sources .
We will take the one which most favorable , he said .
He said this year the investment fund could still be sought from internal funds .
This year the internal funds are still sufficient for such purpose , but we will need bigger funds in the second quarter next year and it is only then that we will seek bank loans or funds from other sources depending on which one is most favorable , he said .
Regarding the idea of issuing global bonds he said that the plan still stands , awaiting the right time .
We still want to see a good condition of the macro-economic situation in the country We have also appointed an underwriter , JP Morgan , he said .
The company in the next four years needs an investment of US $ 1.2 to 1.6 billion to be used for building two new cement factories and 10 power plants .
He said the two factories to be set up in Java and Sulawesi would have a cement capacity production of 2.5 million tons a year each .
For the building of the factories the company would need up to US $ 675 million while for the 10 power plants US $ 573 million until 2011 .
The power plants will be built in several location
State-owned Bank Negara Indonesia BNI , the country's third largest lender , will soon raise its lending rate by 1 percent due to tight liquidity funds and a rise in its cost of funds after Bank Indonesia BI raised its key rate by 0.25 basis points to 9.25 percent early this month .
BI has several times raised its key rate. And this time we are making an adjustment by raising it the lending rate by 1 percent due to a rise in cost of funds , BNI President Director Gatot M Suwondo said on Thursday night .
The rise in lending rate would also apply to disbursed loans , including credits worth US $ 100 million to finance the construction of power plants with a combined capacity of 10,000 megawatts , he said .
The government will reduce the amount of state debentures SUN following tight liquidity in the market this year , a finance ministry official said .
In the face of tight liquidity in the market , the government while standing-by will take a number of steps such as reducing the amount of state debentures , Anggito Abimanyu , head of fiscal monetary affairs at the Ministry of Finance , said here on Monday .
He said the amount of state debentures which initially was estimated to reach 1.7 percent of gross domestic product Rp117 trillion would be reduced .
So we will reduce their amount , he said .
The government would also revise the structure of its balance of payments BOP. Actually the structure of our BOP is not as bad as people think. It is much better than expected , he added .
Anggito said the decline in the oil price in the world market would help the government and Bank Indonesia BI / central bank stabilize the market and make liquidity less tight .
What is important is that the government's steps are intended to stabilize the market and loosen up liquidity in the market , he said .
PT Intikeramik Indonesia Asosiasi Tbk KIAS obtained a Rp125 billion loan from PT Clipan Finance Indonesia Tbk CFIN for the settlement of a promissory note of Faringtion Inc and Concept Link. Ltd .
We have signed a new loan agreement with Clipan Finance , said KIAS president director , Rica Susilo , Monday .
Rico said the loan was given with a 17 percent annual interest rate calculated daily .
The loan covering a period of 12 months can be extended .
The new loan is guaranteed with all the firm's assets , as agreed on in an extraordinary shareholders general meeting on May 12 2008
The realization of customs tax receipt until September 2 this year has reached Rp33.65 trillion or about 73.61 percent of the target set at Rp45.72 trillion in the revised 2008 state budget .
According to the Online Report Module of the Customs and Excise Office here on Tuesday , import duty receipt in that period also reached Rp14.80 trillion or about 93.55 percent of the target set in the state budget at Rp15.82 trillion .
In the meantime , the realization of export tax revenues has also reached Rp12.52 trillion or about 112.24 percent of the target set at Rp11.16 trillion in the state budget .
Thus , the total state revenues the Customs and Exercise Office has collected until September 2 , 2008 accounted for Rp60.97 trillion while the revised 2008 state budget has set a total of Rp74.70 trillion .
The rupiah tumbled to US $ 9,465 / 9,470 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Tuesday morning from Rp9,453 / Rp9,536 per dollar the day before , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The rupiah came under constant pressure , causing it to tumble again on Tuesday , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Tuesday .
If the condition continued , the Indonesian currency might edge closer to Rp9,500 per dollar , he said .
The rupiah would further depreciate against the dollar if Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI did not intervene in the money market and left its trading to the market mechanism , he said .
Bank Indonesia will likely intervene in the market if the market pressure is getting stronger and causes the rupiah to move closer to Rp9,500 per dollar , he said .
He said the central bank would prevent the local unit from hitting a psychological level of Rp9,500 per dollar which many feared would cause the rupiah to plunge further .
It was a matter of time for Bank Indonesia to intervene in the money market , he said .
The government is still undecided about raising excise tariff for the 2009 draft state budget , a minister said .
When it comes to excise tariff for the 2009 draft state budget , we will go ahead with the existing policy , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said on Thursday .
The government would not make radical changes in excise tariff next year as proposed by many quarters , she said .
Earlier , the Demographic Institute of the School of Economics at the University of Indonesia LDFEUI proposed that the government raise the target of state revenues from tobacco excise to the maximum limit as permitted by the excise law .
LDFEUI suggested that state revenues from tobacco excise be raised by a range of Rp29.1 trillion to Rp59.3 trillion to increase the health of the people and support the state budget .
The minister said she had communicated the government's short-term policy in the excise sector to the stakeholders as well as to relevant government agencies such as the industry ministry , the manpower and transmigration ministry and the health ministry .
The government has set the excise revenue target at Rp47.49 trillion for 2009 compared to Rp45.72 trillion a year earlier .
The rupiah strengthened to Rp9,300 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Monday as investors bought the local unit on signals that Bank Indonesia BI will extend repurchase agreement repo facilities .
Bank Indonesia's plan to extend repo facilities and the government's wish to put its funds in the central bank to boost banking liquidity had caused the rupiah to strengthen , foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Monday .
The Indonesian currency closed at Rp9,300 / 9,305 per dollar late Monday compared to Rp9,313 / 9,380 per dollar at the weekend , up 13 points .
He said the US government had also injected US $ 700 billion in fresh funds to overcome a financial crisis that affected the country .
The US was trying to overcome the financial crisis after a number of large-scale US companies had gone bankrupt , he said .
The rupiah had earlier edged closer to Rp9,080 per dollar before it closed at Rp9,300 / 9,305 per dollar .
Rully said the rupiah still had room to strengthen again as BI would always try to keep the local unit's liquidity using all its available instruments though the global economic turbulence had shown on sign of abating .
It was likely BI would raise again its benchmark interest rate to curb the stubbornly high inflation rate , he said .
China announced Monday its first cut in lending rates since 2002 , the strongest indication yet that it is becoming concerned about the need to spur growth .
The government has decided to cut the benchmark one-year lending rate by 27 basis points to 7.20 percent with effect from Tuesday , while keeping the deposit rate stable , the central bank said in a statement .
China's government has indicated in recent weeks that spurring growth has become a priority , in a major shift from a more pronounced emphasis on inflation control early this year .
The Politburo reached that consensus against the backdrop of new data showing China's economic growth slowed to 10.1 percent in the second quarter of 2008 by contrast , the economy grew by 11.9 percent in the whole of 2007 .
However , the nation's largest and most cash-rich banks were not covered by the reserve ratio cut , indicating monetary authorities were keen not to flood the market with liquidity .
By contrast , the required reserve ratio will be slashed by two percentage points for local financial institutions in areas devastated by the May earthquake in southwest China's Sichuan province .
Indonesia's economy will still grow more than six percent despite the current financial market crisis , Sunarsip , an observer from the Indonesia Economic Intelligence , said here on Monday .
Although the capital market has slumped and the rupiah is under pressure our economy will remain to grow past six percent because our economic growth is driven more by internal and not external factors , he said .
He said the country's economy still grew 6.39 percent in the first semester of this year despite the world economic slowdown .
Strong domestic demand as reflected by credit growth , reaching 35 to 37 percent , will certainly boost economic growth , he said .
In view of that he believed the country's economic growth would reach 6.3 percent .
moreover strong demand is still continuing , he said .
He said current fluctuations in the domestic financial market were driven more by external factors .
referring to the collapse of huge companies in the US such as the Lehman Brothers and City Corp before .
He said the collapse had caused financial market upheavals in various countries including Indonesia .
I think the impact on the financial market will remain in the next two months , he said .
On inflation he said it was predicted it could reach 12 percent .
Inflation this year will remain high but is still tolerable in view of current economic condition , he said .
The Asian Development Bank ADB and the Islamic Development Bank IDB have signed a co-financing agreement to raise up to US $ 4 billion in fresh funds to finance projects in a number of member states , including Indonesia in the next three years .
Under the agreement , the two international institutions will make available US $ 2 billion each for the projects , the ADB said in its official website on Tuesday .
The agreement would focus on financing infrastructure projects covering irrigation and urban sectors .
In a number of certain countries , the education , health , etc sectors may have a chance of securing financing from the agreement .
The agreement is in line with the Accra Summit and other international declarations within the frame of building development effectiveness and harmony , IDB Vice President Amadou Cisse said .
In addition , the agreement would also make it possible for the adoption of a new platform in which the two institutions could raise third party funds from investors in other member states , ADB Director General for Central and West Asia Juan Miranda said .
The agreement is consistent with the ADB's 2020 strategy and the IDB's 1440 Hijrah vision , IDB Director for Asia Walid Abdelwahab said .
State-owned tin mining company PT Timah has canceled a plan to acquire a mining business in Australia because it is no longer profitable .
The Australian mining field is an old mining site which had been abandoned for a long time with a remaining tin reserve of about 11,000 million tons .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani stated that the total dividends put in by state-own enterprises BUMN during the first semester of pf2008 had reached Rp13.5 trillion from its target of Rp31.2 trillion in 2008 state budget as reported here Tuesday .
The number was a contribution from the bank and non-bank sectors respectively Rp4.5 trillion and Rp8.9 trillion .
The state oil and gas company PT Pertamina has not raised the numbers since it is still being calculated , she said .
The contribution from the banks has exceeded the initial target of Rp3.87 quintillion and the global fluctuation should be taken into consideration for the banks to prepare the careful risk management .
PT Semen Gresik Tbk estimates its income by the end of this year will reach Rp11 trillion or up by 15 percent from around Rp9.5 trillion last year , the company's chief said .
In the second semester of this year , demand has been low but it is expected to rise again in September and remain high until year end , the company's president director , Dwi Sutjipto , said here on Tuesday .
Accordingly , the company hoped its net profit this year would at least be the same as last year , he said .
Dwi said the company's financial performance depended much on demand and cement price movements in the market .
Referring as an example to the situation in August when national demand dropped around two percent compared to the same period last year .
However , this is not a problem because the target of the first semester has already been surpassed , he said .
Dwi said the company's rising income until the end of this year would probably be the result of an increase in demand from 34 million tons in 2007 to 37 million tons .
It was even predicted cement consumption would increase 10 to 11 percent until the end of this year , he said .
The drop in August could be taken as a base for calculating demand until the end of the year , he said .
In connection with the company's plan to build a new factory in Pati , Central Java , Dwi said that it would be realized soon .
It cannot as yet be carried out because we have yet to receive the environmental impact analysis report from the government agency concerned , he said .
The report is an important requirement which has to be met by the company before starting the development and acquiring land .
Regarding funding , he said it was not a problem because the company had already set aside US $ 1.6 billion for the contruction of two new plants .
The rupiah fell to Rp9,310 / 9,315 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Tuesday as investors rushed for the greenback over worries about the global economic turbulence .
Investors still rushed for the dollar though the US financial crisis has led to a number of US financial companies going bankrupt , foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara said on Tuesday .
The rupiah fell 20 points to Rp9,310 / 9,315 per dollar late Tuesday from Rp9,290 / 9,329 per dollar the day before .
Rully said the Indonesian currency would likely come under pressure in the ensuing days as investors were still worried about the global economic turbulence .
Moreover , the country's inflation rate was still high , prompting Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI to raise again its key interest rate , locally known as BI Rate , he said .
Currently , investors did concentrate their attention on the high BI Rate but tended to save their funds by buying the dollar , he said .
The market was rather panic-stricken , the more so because a number of share markers also came under pressure , he said .
Meanwhile , the dollar tumbled against other global major currencies over worries that the US government's plan to inject US $ 700 billion to take over non-performing loans would burden the US finance .
The euro rose to 1.4677 from 1,4572 per dollar. The dollar also fell against the yen to 106.30 from 107.38 .
Publicly listed PT Indofood Sukses Makmur INDF has officially acquired a 68.57 percent stake of PT Indolakto worth US $ 350 million , INDF corporate secretary Werianty Setiawan said .
She said that the acquisition took place after INDF took over a 100 percent stake of Darayton Pte. Ltd through Pastilla Investment .
The company has signed a conditional sale-purchase agreement with Pastilla Investment Limited to acquire a 100 percent stake in Drayton , she said here on Tuesday .
Indolakto is a milk and milk-based product producer such as milk , butter and ice cream .
Indolakto has so far produced products with trade marks such as Indomilk , Cap Enaak , Tiga Sapi , Ordchid Butter and Indoeskrim .
Werianty said the acquisition was expected to be completed in December 2008 .
The fund for the purchase of the stake will be taken from the company's cashflow and bank loans .
Besides taking over its stake , the company also acquired its receivables worth US $ 100.5 million .
She said her company has paid the acquisition funds amounting to US $ 2.5 million , which is the equivalent of 15 percent of the acquisition fund at the time the agreement was concluded .
The remaining US $ 297.5 million or about 85 percent will be paid off in seven work days after all the conditions for the acquisition have been met .
PT Bumi Resources Tbk buys back up to 23.807 millions of its shares which are equal to 8.77 percent of a total market volume of 271.409 million shares .
The transaction was done on September 4 , 2008 with PT Danatama Makmur as the broker , the company's director , Eddie J Soebari , said here on Monday .
He said the deal was settled at a price of Rp4,575 to Rp4,625 between 30 minutes after and 30 minutes before the opening of the trade .
With it the company has so far bought back 47.836 millions of its shares .
The shareholders meanwhile in an extraordinary meeting on June 12 2008 decided it would buy back a maximum of 582.120 million shares during a period of June 12 2008 to June 12 2009 .
Until now the rest of shares allowed to be bought back reaches 534.284 million shares .
Bank Muamalat is to establish the First Islamic Investment Bank Ltd with an initial capital of US $ 10 million in Malaysia , its president director Andi Buchori said here on Monday .
We have received the license from Labuan Offshore Financial Services Authority LOFSA in Malaysia and got the letter of content from Bank Indonesia , the central bank , to establish the investment company in the country , Andi Buchori said .
He said the company would start in October this year and Bank Muamalat would add US $ 100 million to its capital .
while an investment for its infrastructure development was predicted to be around US $ 1 million .
According to Buchori , Fist Islamic Investment Bank Ltd would have its main office in Kuala Lumpur and its secretariat office in Labuan , Malaysia .
Labuan has been known by international investors including those from the Middle East who use foreign SVP , Buchori said ,
adding that the establishment of investment bank was to withdraw funds from investors who invested in medium and long term equity financing 5-10 years .
The Deposit Insurance Agency LPS has raised its deposit insurance rate LPS Rate by 50 basis points to 9.25 percent for the Sept 15 , 2008 - January 14 , 2009 period in anticipation of a rise in lending rates .
LPS rate on foreign currency-denominated deposits remained unchanged at 3.50 percent , LPS Executive Chief Firdaus Djaelani said here on Thursday .
The reason behind the decision is that banks will raise their lending rates in the next few months in response to relatively tight liquidity funds in the market , he said .
The decision to raise the LPS rate was also designed to anticipate the stubbornly high inflation rates during the Ramadhan fasting month , Lebaran post-fasting month festivities and New Year festivities , he said .
The deposit insurance rate on deposits in smallholder credit banks was set at 12.75 percent , he said .
Last week , Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI raised its benchmark interest rate to 9.25 percent in response to the expected high inflation rates in the next few months .
The increase in LPS rate was the biggest the agency had ever decided .
The on-year inflation rate reached 11.85 percent in August 2008. BI has set the inflation rate target at 11.5-12.5 percent for this year and 6.5-7.5 percent for next year .
The government plans to cut the amount of state bonds SUN to be issued this year by Rp15 trillion due to current tight market liquidity .
The situation had more or less created uncertainty for market players and put the developing countries' market into an unfavorable position because investors tended to liquidate their position in these countries to offset their loss in other places and move to other safer instruments US bonds or cash money .
As a result of the situation , liquidity in the financial market in various countries including Indonesia was tight .
In the case of Indonesia , the country's growing economy was now needing bigger liquidity and therefore the situation was also affecting liquidity in the national stock market and banking , he said .
He said in macro-economic terms liquidity condition and its prospect in Indonesia were still maintained in the current global market and domestic financial market fluctuations that brought an impact on the development of share price index , state bond market and the rupiah currency .
He said the liquidity maintainance was demonstrated in the implementation in the national state budget plan until August this year in which realization of state revenues especially from taxes had shown an increase of 46 percent so that the state's income had reached 68 percent of the target .
On the expenditure side the target indeed has not been met .
However spending for fuel oil subsidy is predicted to decline following the fall of the crude price to reduce state expenditures .
As a result the 2008 deficit is expected to drop from formerly 2.1 percent of the gross domestic product to around 1.7 percent of the GDP .
With the drop demand for financing through issuance of bonds will drop by Rp15 trillion which eventually reduce the government's demand for liquidity from the market .
He said the government believed macro-economic liquidity would remain maintained and could support economic development .
However problems are also linked to micro-economic liquidity at banking levels , he said .
In view of that the government along with the central bank would take measures necessary to anticipate both micro-and macro-liquidity pressures .
Among the measures to be taken were the government will improve absorption of spending and even speed up disbursement of expenditures for certain bills , reduce issuance of state bonds , speed up revision of Government Regulation Number 1 of 2007 on fiscal incentives for industries , provision of liquidity facilities for banks by the central bank through open market operations or purchase of securities and improving the regulation for the extension of the repurchase agreement facility for easing banks to obtain additional liquidity from the central bank .
He said the government and the central bank were appealing to banks and market players to remain calm and not be provoked to engage in a price or interest rate war that would only harm the industry itself .
He said the government and the central bank would continue to monitor the developments from time to time and coordinate to take necessary measures to minimize loss suffered by the financial industry or the national economy .
The government and the central bank will maintain the stability of the Indonesian financial system in facing global market fluctuations , he said .
The Asian Development Bank ADP is urging Asian developing countries to structurally reform their agriculture sector to prevent food prices from resurging .
The latest Asian Development Outlook ADO report received by ANTARA Tuesday stated the food crisis was still lingering despite declines in the prices of certain foodstuffs such as rice .
Demand is still higher than supply , said ADB chief economist Ifzal Ali , adding that another shock in supply would cause an increase in the prices of cereals .
The report also said various things had caused the food crisis this year when the rice price rose from 400 US dollars per ton early in the year to 1,200 US dollars per ton in May , before finally dropping again to 730 US dollars per ton last week .
The government must invest in public sector goods that support development of agricultural productivity and faciliate dissemination of clear market information among producers as well as consumers .
Only an increase in supply from Asian farmers can lower food prices , Ali said .
The report also predicted foodstuff prices at least for some time to come would not drop below their 2008 level even if Asian countries invested in the agricultural sector good harvests over a period of several years were needed to rebuild the world's cereals stocks which had dropped low .
To achieve this , the prices of farmers' products must remain high because the agricultural input price rises with the increase in the crude oil price , said Ali .
The world is now witnessing a change in pattern , namely from declining foodstuff prices in the last three decades to the prospect of high foodstuff prices in the next decades , Ali added .
Asia must make structural reforms to adapt with the new environment where resources have become more scarce , he said
PT Lautan Luas LTLS , one of Indonesia's leading manufacturers and distributors of chemicals , has set up a subsidiary in Vietnam called Lautan Luas Vietnam Co Ltd. LLV through its subsidiary in Singapore , Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd .
Director of LTLS Joshua Chandraputra Asali in his report to the Indonesian Stock Exchange BEI said here on Wednesday that the establishment of the new company in Vietnam was aimed at strengthening the company's manufacturing and distribution network .
Lautan Luas Vietnam Co. Ltd. is engaged in manufacturing and distribution businesses with a total capital of US $ 1.60 million and its shares are wholly owned by Lautan Luas Singapore Pte. Ltd .
The rupiah strengthened by 14 points to Rp9,211 / 9,215 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday evening from Rp9,225 / 9,232 per dollar at the weekend as investors bought up the local unit .
The rush on the rupiah was triggered by the improving regional bourse caused by a strengthening of the Wall Street index and the decline in the country's on-month inflation rate to 0.59 percent in April , foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of publicly-listed PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk , said on Monday .
Investors bought up the rupiah as there was a positive sentiment toward the Indonesian currency , he said .
The rush on the rupiah happened in anticipation of the government's decision to raise fuel oil prices early next month , he said .
He predicted the rupiah would strengthen within a range of Rp9,110 to Rp9,115 per dollar in the days ahead given the positive market sentiment .
President Director of PT Danareksa Investment Management Priyo Santoso has estimated that the country's inflation rate , which currently tended to increase , would be down in the 2008 second quarter thanks to improving US economic indicators .
With the improvement of the US economy , inflation rate in various countries in Asia , Europe and America , will be moving downward , because the global economy is moving to a positive direction , he said here on Tuesday .
The Asian region , especially Indonesia , was very worried about the condition of the US economic growth because the US was a potential market for its export products , he said .
However , a number of US economic indicators which had showed signs of improvement , gave a hope that the US economic continued to grow following the US sub-prime mortgage crisis
Among the improving US economic indicators was the U.S. service sector which showed a better-than-expected reading of 52 for April , up from 49.6 in March. Besides , a number of US oil and mining companies were also recording a better growth , he said .
However , a number of business players were still waiting for further data on the US economy to see whether the US crisis was really over , he said .
Meanwhile , Indonesia continued to deal with its problems by among other things planning to raise fuel prices in June 2008 , he said .
The rocketing world's crude oil price surge to above 120 US dollars cause Indonesia's budget deficit to increase significantly , he said .
The government asked the people to understand the government's plan to raise the fuel prices next June in order cut the budget deficit .
On the Bank Indonesia BI key rate , he said the central bank was estimated to maintain its key rate , known as BI Rate , because the April inflation rate tended to get lower to around 0.59 percent from 0.95 percent previously .
The Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kadin has expressed hope Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI will not raise its key rate this month although the on-month inflation rate in April was 0.57 percent and the on-year inflation rate 8.96 percent .
Businessmen hope BI will not raise the BI Rate because until now they still believe the central bank will not do so despite the high monthly inflation rate in April 2008 , the chief of the chamber's permanent committee for monetary and fiscal affairs , Bambang Soesatyo , said here on Monday .
Even without a hike in the BI Rate , the business world was already suffering due to a 6.4-11.3 percent increase in the prices of fuel oil for industries effective May 1 , an increase in electricity bills , global inflation pressures , declining demand in the export market , high taxes and consumers' low purchasing power , he said .
In addition , non-performing loans had also jumped by 25 percent from 5 percent to 6.25 percent of total outstanding loans while the stability index of the financial system had risen to 1.25 percent from 1.21 percent previously , he said .
If the funancial system's stability index approaches the 2-percent level , it is a red signal because it means the economy is in turbulence , he said .
Publicly-listed satellite company PT Indosat is seeking a syndicated loan of US $ 200 million , its deputy president director , Kaizad B. Beerjee , said here on Thursday .
The company had assigned ING Bank NV ING and DBS Bank respectively as arranger and emission underwriter in order to support the company's plan to raise funds through a syndicated loan , he said .
The funds to be obtained from the syndicated loan will be used to finance the company's capital expenditures amounting to 1.2 billion dollars .
The loan will come from four foreign banks , he said .
He said the loan facility was supported by a green-shoe option which enabled the facility to be increased to up to 100 million dollars .
The rupiah fell to a level of close to Rp9,250 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday morning as investors kept buying up the greenback amidst worries over a continued rise in global crude prices .
Investors rushed for the dollar as global crude prices are expected to continue to increase to US $ 140 a barrel at the end of this year , foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Monday .
The rupiah was also under market pressures due to the dollar's appreciation against the Japanese yen following rumors that the US Federal Reserve would stop lowering its interest rate at its meeting in June , he said .
The Fed was expected to cut its interest rate by only 25 basis points to 2 percent at its meeting later this month , he said .
He predicted the rupiah would still be under pressures to edge closer to Rp9,300 per dollar because of high negative market pressures although the interest rate in the rupiah still lured foreign investors to do business in the domestic market .
Unless foreign investors put their funds in the domestic market , the rupiah might move farther from a level of Rp9,400 per dollar , he said .
The much-anticipated cut in the Fed's interest rate was expected to have no significant impact on the movement of the rupiah which is under the pressure of the surging global crude prices , he said .
But Bank Indonesia the central bank's intervention in the money market to prevent the rupiah from falling further had given boost to the local unit , he said .
Another boost to the rupiah's movement came from the bullish regional share market including Nikkei index which reached an unprecedented level of 14,000 points , up 1 percent , he said .
However , the positive factors still did little to erase worries on the part of investors who continued to buy up the dollar , he said .
Rupiah on the Jakarta inter bank spot market on Tuesday morning weakened nearly to the level of Rp9,300 per US dollar as market players were still hunting the greenback while awaiting the issuance of data on the US economy and the upcoming meeting of The Fed .
Market players mainly those from state electricity company PLN and state oil and gas company Pertamina are still buying US dollars , due to the soaring crude oil price that is expected to strengthen until end of this year , President Director of the Finance Corpindo Edwin Sinaga said on Tuesday .
Rupiah weakened to Rp9,237 / 9,239 on Tuesday morning from Rp9,227 / 9,239 against US dollar on the previous day , a decrease of 10 points .
Sinaga said the market was still hit by worries over the unstable crude oil price which was expected to go on , causing the rupiah exchange rate on the domestic market to keep decreasing .
The crude oil price , he added , continued to soar as workers in the North Sea , Britain , were on strike which might lower its production .
As a result , rupiah would likely till the end of this month continue to plunge to the level of Rp9,300 to US dollar , he added .
The buyers , he said , would still wait for the issuance of data on the American economy which was expected to weaken , and the upcoming meeting of The Fed slated to be held later this month .
The Fed is expected to cut its interest rate to 25 basis points to 2.00 percent from 2.25 percent , he noted .
He said the government's ongoing budget deficit would likely hamper the national economic growth , hence some banks had reported that their net profits in the first quarter of this year decreased .
If the crude oil price continues to be unstable , he added , the government may raise the fuel oil in a bid to reduce the budget deficit .
The government , he said , has even been looking for more reserve funds in anticipation of possible unstable food and crude oil prices .
Meanwhile , US dollar against yen remains stable at 103.3 yen as foreign buyers keep being aware of the market prior to The Fed's meeting .
Publicly-listed cigarette maker PT Gudang Garam Tbk said its net profit in the first quarter of 2008 fell 16.46 percent to Rp336.13 billion from the same period last year .
The drop was the result of a 13 percent rise in sales expenditures to Rp5.84 trillion from Rp5.17 trillion previously , according to the company's quarterly financial report published on Monday .
Total sales rose 6.5 percent to Rp6.91 trillion from Rp6.48 trillion .
However , operating profit dropped 12.54 percent to Rp614.87 billion from Rp702.1 billion .
The drop in net profit caused earnings per share to fall to Rp176 from Rp210 previously .
The Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kadin has expressed support for Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI's decision to raise its key rate or BI Rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent .
The BI Rate must be raised slightly indeed to curb the inflation rate and to create a climate conducive for foreign investment , Kadin Chairman MS Hidayat said on the sidelines of a national development planning congress here on Tuesday .
The inflation rate must be controlled to prevent it from soaring due to the skyrocketing prices of commodities , he said .
BI's board of governors at its meeting on Tuesday decided to raise the BI Rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent after the central bank kept it unchanged for four consecutive months since last December , the decision was taken in response to high inflationary pressures and uncertainty about global commodity prices .
The board believed the factors would influence the prices of commodities in the domestic market .
Considering that the banking industry is still in good condition , the board of governors at the meeting decided to raise the BI Rate , BI Deputy Senior Governor Miranda S. Goeltom said .
Miranda said inflationary pressures were getting stronger particularly because of the rising prices of food in the global market and the higher prices of non-food commodities at home .
This must be responded to by issuing a tight macro economic policy to preserve macro economic stability and to control inflationary pressures in the days ahead .
In order keep expectations about future developments high , BI will always adjust the BI Rate to the trend in the inflation rate , she said .
The on-month inflation rate in April was recorded at 0.57 percent , bringing the year-on-year inflation rate to 8.96 percent compared to 8.17 percent a month earlier .
PT Astra International Tbk ASII has bought 280,731,333 shares in PT United Tractors Tbk UNTR .
Through a rights issue making it a 58.54-percent stakeholder in the heavy-duty equipment maker , an UNTR executive said .
Total UNTR shares held by ASII now reaches 1,947,604,150 which is equal to 58.54 percent , UNTR's investor relations manager Ari Setiyawan said here on Monday .
Before the rights issue ASII share ownership in the UNTR was only 1,666,872,825 which was equal to 58.45 percent with the rest belonging to other parties and the public .
Under the rights issue the ASII , as a standy buyer , bought shares that were not taken by other public sharesholders totalling 280,731,333 .
Total funds spent by the company to execute the right reached Rp2.105 trillion , he said .
Last week the UNTR completed the rights issue execution of 475,268,183 shares at a price of Rp7,500 per share or totally worth Rp3.564 trillion .
ASII had acted as a standby buyer .
The UNTR would use the proceeds from the sale totaling Rp3.564 trillion to pay its debts 30 pct , acquire a coal mine 55 PCT and as a working capital 15 pct .
Minister of State Enterprises BUMN Sofyan Djalil predicted here Sunday that Krakatau Steel's Initial Public Offering IPO would be possible by the end of 2008 if the stock market in Indonesia rebounds .
If the stock market rebounds just like last week and may continue until the end of the year , it is not impossible that Krakatau Steel's IPO will be realized , Djalil said after inspecting the preparations of PT Indonesia Ferry to anticipate the annual exodus of people for the Idul Fitri holidays .
On September 18 , legislators approved the IPOs of steelmaker PT Kratakau Steel , national flag carrier PT Garuda Indonesia and savings bank PT Bank Tabungan Negara .
The House's Commission XI authorized the government to sell a 30 percent stake in Krakatau Steel with a projected income of Rp3 trillion to Rp4 trillion .
The proceeds of the state company will be used as part of Rp 16.41 trillion earmarked for the company's expansion plan to boost production capacity , to be implemented over the next two to three years up to 2010 .
State-owned construction company PT Adhi Karya Tbk ADHI intends to pull out from the Jakarta Monorail JM project because no progress is being made in its realization and not enough funds seem to be available for it , a spokesman said .
Another reason was that implementation of the project was being constrained by the Jakarta City administration's apparent preference to build a subway system , Kurnadi Gularso , ADHI's corporate secretary , said here Thursday .
At present ADHI was studying ways to sell its 30.1 stake , equivalent to 1.94 million US dollars , in the JM project , he added .
Kurnadi said the JM project was still facing financing problems .
The whole project was capitalized at 480 million US dollars but until now it had remained uncertain where about 144 million US dollars of the amount would come from .
The project was also to be supported with external financing to the tune of 336 million US dollars but in this respect too there was as yet no clear or firm prospect , he said .
Bank BNI is currently negotiating the capitalization of a new shariah bank it has agreed to set up in Indonesia in partnership with the Islamic Corporation for the Private Sector ICD , the bank's chief said .
Bank BNI's target in the talks was for the planned shariah bank to be capitalized at US $ 500 milllion or Rp4.5 trillion with BNI holding only a minority stake , Bank BNI President Director Gatot M Suwondo said here Friday .
If the negotiations are successful , the shariah bank's capital will reach US $ 500 million or about Rp4.5 trillion .
Thereby it will be the shariah bank with the largest capital in the country , he said .
Bank BNI and ICD signed a Memorandum of Understanding MoU in October 2007 to study the possibility of establishing a shariah bank as a joint venture with Bank BNI's shariah unit serving as the embryo .
The shariah bank would be co-owned by the Islamic Development Bank IDB and was therefore expected to generate benefits for BNI and the Indonesian public in general .
Suwondo said BNI had decided to be just a minority shareholder in the joint shariah bank so that BNI would not need to spend too much on its participation in the bank and more foreign capital could be attracted .
I hope the negotiations with ICD can be finalized this month so that we can proceed to implement the next phase of the plan , Suwondo added .
The rupiah weakened to over Rp9,150 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Monday morning as investors bought the dollar after the greenback strengthened in the global market .
The rupiah traded at Rp9,156 / 9,160 per dollar compared to Rp9,143 / 9,146 per dollar at the weekend , down 13 points .
Money market observer Edwin Sinaga said the rupiah came under pressure following a US $ 6 fall in global crude prices to US $ 114.35 a barrel due to low demand .
Investors rushed for the dollar on speculation the European Central Bank ECB would cut its interest rates to boost sluggish economic growth , he said .
Consequently , the dollar strengthened against the euro , he said .
The dollar's exchange rate against the yen also rose to 110.25 from 110.01 .
Edwin predicted the rupiah would come under constant pressure on Monday because of high positive sentiments for the dollar .
The market would still likely focus on the dollar buyups that would cause the greenback to strengthen on Monday evening , he said .
But he added that the local unit still had a great chance to strengthen despite low demand for retail state bonds bearing the serial number of 005 .
The inflow of foreign capital particularly from the Middle East would give a boost to the rupiah , he said .
The rupiah had earlier hit Rp9,080 per dollar but it later plunged to near Rp9,200 per dollar .
The National Development Planning Agency Bappenas has predicted the 2009 general elections will have no impact on inflation so that the country's inflation rate target of 6.5 percent for next year can be achieved .
To anticipate high inflation next year , the government would make every effort to ensure smooth distribution of goods and preserve political stability , Slamet Senoadji , deputy for economic affairs to the state minister of national development planning / Bappenas chief , said here on Monday .
The key lies in two factors : smooth distribution of goods and political stability. And God willing , we can achieve them , he said .
He said the government would learn from the 2004 polls which according to Bappenas' record did not affect the inflation in that year .
In the draft 2009 state budget , the government has set the inflation rate target for 2009 at 6.5 percent .
which is the same as the inflation rate forecast quoted in the revised 2008 state budget .
Meanwhile , the on-year inflation rate in July 2008 reached 11.9 percent .
Publicly-listed telecommunications operator PT Bakrie Telecom Tbk BTEL said on Monday its net profit in the first half of 2008 jumped 59.5 percent to Rp62.4 billion from a year earlier , fueled by an increase in the number of customers .
The number of BTEL customers in the first semester of 2008 rose almost one-and-a-half fold or 141.9 percent compared to the same period last year , BTEL Finance Director Jastiro Abi said .
The number of BTEL customers rose to 5.4 million in the first half of 2008 from 2.2 million in the same period last year .
The Supreme Audit Board BPK could not audit state monetary policies , BPK auditor Sukoyo said here on Monday .
Under the law on state finances , BPK can not audit monetary policies , as the board is only allowed to audit the financial reports on Bank Indonesia's cash flow , he said .
If there auditing has been conducted by outsiders , it could be done at the request of the House of Representatives DPR .
Performnace and other relevant matters could be audited by BPK on the request of the House , he said .
As to the unravelling of a case on the cash low from Bank Indonesia central bank to the several lawmakers , the scandal surfaced not because of the bank's financial report , but as it was directly received from the financial report of the Indonesian banking education foundation YPPI established by Bank Indonesia .
We auditted the foundation's financial report very carefully and an auditing is conducted on the fact that the foundation is established by Bank Indonesia , so that it has nothing to do with the bank's financial report , he said .
Sukoyo further disclosed that the uncovery of the cashflow from BI was started with an asset like a plot of land belonging to the bank in Kemang , South Jakarta .
On the land owned by BI , there are some buildings which do not belong to BI but YPPI the bank's foundation which eventually caused the cash flow from BI amounting to Rp100 billion to the House to surface .
The remarks were made by Sukoyo in response to a statement of Center of Bank Crisis' Director CBS saying that BPK could only uncover things in the financial report , but offences like corruption caused by monetary policies could not be uncovered .
The government is optimistic the country's economic growth will reach the target figure of 6.2 percent in 2009 , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said .
The government is optimistic the economic growth rate target of 6.2 percent for 2009 will be achieved , the minister said here on Tuesday .
The minister made the statement when giving the government's answers to general comments made by political party factions in the House of Representatives DPR on the Draft 2009 State Budget at a House plenary session here Tuesday .
She said the government's optimism was based on the economic growth rate figures achieved in the past eight quarters which averaged more than six percent .
The non-oil / non-gas gross domestic products GDP which constituted the economic pulse of most of the people had last year even risen to almost seven percent .
Mulyani said to spur the performance of the real sector , the government had adopted various policies as laid down in Presidential Instruction Inpres No 5 / 2008 , and continue to issue more such policies .
The main points of the presidential instruction included the improvement of the investment climate by among other things amending the law on income tax PPh and value-added tax PPN , and acceleration of infrastructure development through , for instance , the building of thermal power pants with a combined capacity of 10,000 KW and implementing the Economic Partnership Agreement EPA .
Although we are making various efforts , we are aware that we are also facing uncertainties , the minister said .
She said the main constraints in the implementation of the state budget were uncertainties , instability and economic fluctuations on national as well as global scale .
The minister said the government had also carefully assessed , from the domestic and global viewpoints , various indications and changes which could significantly affect the national economy and the state budget .
In order to anticipate uncertainties , instability and economic fluctuations , the government had set aside reserves to ensure that the programs provided for in the 2009 state budget would be carried out , she said .
The government has prepared funds and anticipatory steps , the minister said .
Increasing the price of liquefied petroleum gas LPG in 12-kg and 50-kg cylinders on the occasion of the fasting month was not the right time , as the August inflation was higher than predicted .
This condition would affect the projected inflation of 11 to 12 percent , Head of the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS Rusman Heriawan said here , on Wednesday .
Even now that the price increase has yet to be set , the price of PLG has become uncontrollable , so that state oil company Pertamina's price for the market became unclear , especially for places outside Java .
According to the BPS , the July inflation reached 1.37 percent , while the January-July inflation stood at 8.85 percent , and the year-on-year inflation reached 11.9 percent .
He reminded that the weight of LPG and kerosene as fuel for household use based on the inflation tray reached 2.15 percent , not to mention long term affect on food industries .
He also said that if Pertamina wanted once again to raise the price of LPT in 12-kg and 50-kg containers , it should not be done in the next two months September and October as in these two months the inflation rate had been predicted to increase significantly .
BPS predicted that the LPG price increase may seriously affect the government kerosene-to-LPS conversion in a bid to reduce oil subsidy .
Now consumers who normally use LPG in 12-kg cylinders , would turn to subsidized 3-kg containers , and this change may eventually cause a serious lack of LPG in 3-kg containers , he said .
If this happened , Rusman said , Pertamina would lose a great deal of additional revenue from the a gas price hike , poor people especially in Java , would have problems to get kerosene , because the supply of this fuel would be reduced .
poor people especially in Java , would have problems to get kerosene , because the supply of this fuel would be reduced .
On Monday , Pertamina increased the prices of LPG in 12-kg and 50-kg containers respectively to Rp69,000 and Rp362,750 from Rp63,000 to Rp343,900 .
Previously the prices of LPG already rose to Rp5,250 from Rp4,250 per kg early in July , 2008 , while LPG in three kg containers was sold at Rp15,000 .
The government will conduct semestral evaluations of the restructurization of local clean water companies PDAM's debts to ensure the program is carried out according to good financial management principles , a minister said .
There must be a review every six months which means that in January 2009 , I will get a report from my director general on what has happened , which PDAMs have made progress and which ones have not , Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said here Wednesday .
It should not be misinterpreted that under the scheme , I am rewarding badly performing PDAMs and ignoring well performing ones , she said .
As per June 30 , 2008 , 175 clean water companies in Indonesia had a backlog of debts totaling Rp4.65 trillion made up of Rp1.5 trillion in principal and Rp3.1 trillion in non-principal debt .
The debt restructurization would be conducted through a debt-to - investment scheme or write-offs of non-principal debt .
The minister dismissed criticism that the scheme would reward poorly performing companies , saying she would evaluate whether the restructurization program was encouraging problematic companies to improve their capability to invest .
We will reward well-performing companies by giving them greater Special Allocation Fund DAK amounts , the minister said .
Meanwhile , the chairman of the Association of Indonesian Drinking Water Companies Perpamsi , Achmad Mardju Kodri , said the PDAMs' debt backlog of Rp4.65 trillion consisted of carry-overs from the companies' managements in the economic crisis in 1997 .
The debt restructurization program would allow PDAMs to focus on development of the drinking water industry and expand their businesses optimally .
The debt restructurization program will help PDAMs to reach the target of 10 million clean water pipe connections over the next three years , he said .
International Finance Corporation IFC , the World Bank's private investment arm , said its total investment in Indonesia now reaches more than US $ 700 million and expressed hope the figure will double in the next few years .
IFC Country Manager for Indonesia Adam Sack said on Wednesday the company had so far invested in a number of domestic banks such as Bank Danamon and Bank BII .
We have provided long-term loans to Danamon to help it extend more loans to SMEs. The same is also true with Bank BII through its subsidiary , WOM , he said .
IFC's investment in the two banks currently reached more than US $ 300 million , he said .
We are eying other banks in Indonesia but we have no urgent target for our financing , he said .
Asked about the possibility of IFC increasing its investment in the two banks , he said IFC considered the banks its working partners and would support them .
But this does not mean that we will increase our loans there , he said .
Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI predicts Indonesia's economic growth rate in 2009 will exceed the government-set target of 6.2 percent if the country does not experience any significant shock and can diversify its export products .
The assumed economic growth rate of 6.2 percent for 2009 is quite realistic .
We believe it can be achieved and higher than 6.2 percent , BI Governor Boediono said at a working meeting with the House Budgetary Committee here on Wednesday .
Economic growth in 2009 growth would hopefully be driven by public consumption and investment , he said .
Public consumption was expected to increase in line with declining inflation and rising economic activities in the runup to the 2009 general elections , he said .
The rise in public consumption will eventually serve as an incentive for the business world to make investment .
Investment will increase on optimism about the rise in the number of infrastructure projects , he said .
Exports would continue to contribute to the economic growth though they would grow at a slow pace , he said .
The sluggish export growth had to do with external factors particularly a global economic slowdown and international commodity prices , he said .
Likewise , imports were expected to slow down next year , he said .
Imports will grow at a lower pace than exports because the imports will be used not only to produce export goods but also to meet consumption and investment at home , he said .
The rupiah in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market moved away from Rp9,150 against the US dollar on Thursday afternoon and strengthened to Rp9,145 / 9,148 per US dollar compared to Rp9,160 / 9,165 on Wednesday due to cotinuing high demand for the local unit among market players .
The rupiah was quoted at Rp9,147 per US dollar at the market's opening on Thursday , he said .
He said the rupiah could soon reach Rp9,100 per US dollar as demand for it was tending to continue to increase while foreign currencies were weakening , he said .
We are optimistic the rupiah will move to the Rp9,100 level per US dollar supported by active rupiah buying by market players , he said .
At first , there was worry the rupiah would drop to the Rp9,200 level but Bank Indonesia BI intervened in the market and shored it up .
The rupiah's rise was also supported by the world crude oli price hike which depressed the US dollar , he said .
We are sure the rupiah can rise still further. Therefore , there is a great chance it will strenghten to Rp9,100 per US dollar , he said .
Publicly-listed mining company PT Aneka Tambang Antam said on Friday its net profit in the first half of this year fell by 49 percent to Rp1.465 trillion from the same period last year .
The drop in the net profit was the result of declining nickel prices due to low demand in the world market as well as rising cost following fuel oil and material price hikes , Antam President Director Alwinsyah Syah Loebis said in a press statement .
The company also suffered Rp95 billion in losses from the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar , thereby reducing the first-semester net profit , he said .
Income in the first semester of 2008 fell by 7 percent to Rp5.57 trillion from a year earlier due to a drop in global nickel prices although the company saw a rise in sale volume thanks to increasing nickel and gold production , he said .
This year the company plans to cut its budget by 10 percent. In addition , we will also speed up our energy conversion program. Hopefully , a feasibility study on the use of coal for our power plants can be completed at the end of this year , he said .
PT Medco Energy MEDC , through its subsidiary PT Medco E & P Tomori Sulawesi Medco Tomori , will supply gas amounting to 250 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd to PT Donggi Senoro LNG DSLNG for a period of 15 years , MEDC director Lukman Mahfoedz said here on Monday .
Lukman Mahfoedz said that Medco Tomori will supply the gas in cooperation with its partners in a Joint Operating Body JOB , which included Pertamina-Medco E & P Tomori Sulawesi JOB Tomori and PT PHH Tomori Sulawesi Pertamina Tomori , operator of the Senoro-Toili gas field block in Central Sulawesi province .
According to Lukman , the gas supply will start in 2012 with a price referred to that of the Japan Crude Cocktail JCC .
The total price of the gas sale is expected to reach over 12 billion US dollars .
The gas will be channeled through a 30-km pipe network which will be built by JOB Tomori , to the LNG plants .
DSLNG is a company set up by a subsidiary firm whose stake is fully owned by PT Medco LNG Indonesia Medco LNG , together with Mitsubishi Corporation MC and Pertamina Energy Services Pte Ltd Pertamina .
The ownership composition of DSLNG state is 51 percent owned by MC , 29 percent by Pertamina and 20 percent Medco LNG .
DSLNG was established to build and operate LNG refinery plants in Banggai district , Central Sulawesi province .
Besides , DSLNG will also promote the marketing and sales of LNG to Japanese buyers .
The LNG plants are estimated to have a capacity of two million tons per annum , and will process gas from the Senoro gas field of the Matindok Block operated by Pertamina .
The final investment decision to build the LNG plants is expected to be made in the fourth quarter of this year at the latest .
It is projected that the plants will be operational in the middle of 2012 .
Indonesia's trade balance is in a safe position although the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS reported a deficit for the first time , a senior minister said .
Our trade balance is safe although its composition has changed as a consequence of sustainable economic growth , Finance Minister / Coordinating Minister for Economy Sri Mulyani Indrawati said after opening a coordination meeting of the Team for Optimizing State Income here Tuesday .
The minister said the trend in the country's economic growth was currently still strong and supported by capital goods , raw materials and consumption goods as its components .
We observe the trend of imports has drastically increased in the past half year , she said .
Indonesia's balance of payments which is managed by Bank Indonesia the central bank should indeed be managed prudently , she said .
It means that our export potentials must be spurred further while imports earmarked for production are inevitable and positively correlated to the total macro economic performance , she said .
She said efforts to maintain the balance of payments comprehensively would be related to the ability of creating a good economic environment so as to make the incoming capital both in the forms of portfolio and foreign direct investment run well .
Limitation of consumption could only be done under the prevailing rules which have been agreed on like those in the contexts of AFTA , ASEAN etc .
as changes cannot be made any time from tariffs or non-tariff policies like setting up quotas except for urgent matters which should be consulted with the trade minister on the compliance with international .
BPS had earlier reported that for the first time Indonesia's balance of trade underwent a deficit of US $ 270 million .
It is the first time for the trade balance to suffer a deficit as the export value is smaller than the import value .
In 2008 , our exports were valued at US $ 12.55 billion and imports at US $ 12,8 billion , BPS Chairman Rusman Heriawan said .
Economic observer Aviliani forecast on Tuesday that inflation in September 2008 would be about one percent , exceeding the August rate of 0.51 percent .
Inflation will reach this level if the government is unable to control the increasing prices of goods and services , he said .
He said inflation was expected to be relatively high in the months ahead due to an expected surge by about 10-25 percent in basic necessaries' prices .
The INDEF researcher said the government could take under control only the prices of four commodities through market operations , namely sugar , rice , cooking oil and wheat flour .
The government would be helpless with regard to the increase in the prices of other commodities because they were controlled by the market mechanism , according to Aviliani .
However , he said , there was a way to reduce the price increases , namely by supervising goods distribution .
No matter how large the number of stocks , if their distribution is not controlled their prices will go up .
He said gas for household needs , for example , if its distribution wa not controlled , it would most likely become a trigger of inflation , even without a government decision to raise its price .
In connection with an estimate that inflation would reach 12 percent in 2008 , Aviliani asked BI not to increase its benchmark interest rate .
This is for the sake of banking credit growth and the development of the infrastructure and plantation sectors , he added .
The House of Representatives DPR passed an income tax bill into law at its plenary meeting here on Tuesday .
All the 10 House factions in their final comments favored the passage of the bill into law .
Chief of the House's Special Committee on the Income Tax Bill Melchias Markus Mekeng said the amendments to the income tax law affected a number of important matters .
They included exemptions from income tax , untaxable income , tax rates , exit tax exemption and tax privileges for small - and medium-scale businesses .
The objects exempted from income tax are divided into two groups. The first group is assistances / contributions including alms received by alms collectors endorsed by the government and compulsory contributions paid by adherents of religious faiths recognized in the country .
The second group is grants received by religious , educational , social bodies including foundations , cooperatives and individuals engaged in small and micro businesses .
Under the new income tax law , the amount of untaxable income for an individual taxpayer is raised to Rp15.84 million from Rp13.2 million a year .
The figure will be raised by Rp1.32 million if the taxpayer is married .
Income tax on individual taxpayers is subject to progressive tariffs divided into four .
The taxable income of up to Rp50 million is subject to a 5-percent tariff , Rp50 million to Rp250 million a 15-percent tariff , Rp250 million to Rp500 million a 25-percent tariff and more than Rp500 million a 30-percent tariff .
Both the House and the government agreed to lower the tariff of income tax on resident corporate taxpayers and permanent establishments from the current 30 percent to 28 percent in 2009 and 25 percent in 2010 .
The new income tax law also stipulates that a 21-year-old resident individual taxpayer who does not have a taxpayer code number and intends to travel overseas is required to pay tax to be provided for in a government regulation .
The provision will take effect until December 31 , 2010 .
Under the law , small and medium micro businesses would also deserve tariff reduction as much as 50 percent of the normal tariff imposed on the taxable income from portion of the gross turnover of up to Rp4.8 billion , Melchias said .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati meanwhile said the government was preparing the implementation regulations on the law .
Hopefully , the law will take effect on January 1 , 2009 , she said .
Jakarta , Sept 2 ANTARA - The annual inflation rate which has reached 11.5 percent will prompt the Indonesian central bank Bank Indonesia / BI to once again raise its benchmark interest rate BI Rate which at present is 9.0 percent , an economic observer said .
BI will once again raise its rate by 25 basis points to 9.25 percent in an effort to curb the upward trend in inflation that has exceeded the government's target at 11.2 percent , Edwin Sinaga said here on Tuesday .
He said that the increase in the BI Rate was expected to encourage foreign investors to place their funds again in the Indonesian money markets .
So far , many foreign investors have withdrawn their funds and invested their money n other markets which are more profitable , he added .
Sinaga said that the rise in the BI Rate was also expected to help improve the rupiah exchange rate after it had plunged in he last several days to a level almost reaching Rp9,200 a US dollar .
He said that BI would likely try its best to maintain the rupiah rate at below the Rp9,200 rate per dollar by releasing its dollar reserves .
We predict that BI will intervene in the market by releasing its dollar currency reserves in order to protect rupiah from falling too far , he added .
He said that the rupiah would be at a secure position if its rate could be maintained at between Rp9,150 and Rp9,175 .
Sinaga said that the rupiah exchange rate which had reached Rp9,195 as a result of the inflation rumors had caused a serious concern .
He said that inflation would reach 12 percent due to various negative factors taking place at home .
According to Sinaga , the fuel oil price hikes last May no longer had effect on the inflation .
What matters now which affects inflation is the increase in the price of liquefied natural gas , he added .
The rupiah tumbled against the dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Tuesday , causing worries to investors as the local unit droped closer to the psychological level of Rp9,200 per dollar .
If the rupiah hit the psychological level of Rp9,200 per dollar , it would continue to fall far beyond the level , PT Finance Corpindo President Director Edwin Sinaga said on Tuesday .
It would be difficult to control the rupiah's continued fall as negative internal factors would put strong pressure on its movement , he said .
We believe the rupiah will weaken to beyond Rp9,200 per dollar if Bank Indonesia BI does not intervene in the money market , he said .
Ideally , the rupiah's exchange rate against the dollar should range from Rp9,100 to Rp9,200 per dollar as expected by the central bank , he said .
The rupiah came under pressure as foreign investors began to withdraw their capital from the domestic market and reinvest it in other more favorable markets , he said .
Even the issuance of state bonds received little support from the market as banks vied with each other in offering high interest on time deposits , he said .
In addition , the good prospects for US economic growth had also prompted investors to buy more dollars , he said .
Consequently , the US greenback strengthened against other Asian currencies , he said .
The rupiah would gain ground if BI raised its benchmark interest rate to curb the accelerating inflation rate , he said .
The rise in the key rate , locally known as BI Rate , was expected to boost an inflow of foreign capital , he said .
Economic observer Ercik Sugandhi predicted here Monday Bank Indonesia central bank will raise its BI rate until the end of this year to 9.75 percent .
BI will use a variety of instruments to curb the economic fluctuation so BI rate will not reach 10 percent , Sugandhi said .
He further said BI rate will rise about 25 points in October 9.5 percent and 25 points in November to 9.75 percent while , but stagnant in December .
If BI rate reaches 10 percent , it will affect national economic growth , Sugandhi explained , adding the target of economic growth set at 6.2 percent will not be reached because the growth rate will only reach 6 percent .
It is because various business sectors grow slower , like property , banking , leasing and the financial sector , he said .
In early May this year , the BI rate was raised from 8 percent to 8.25 percent .
As the result , the volume of money in circulation dropped from 23.4 percent in June to 15.2 percent in July .
So , BI is hoped to raise the its rate by not too high eventhough the rise is to offset the high inflation rate , said Sugandhi .
The rupiah strengthened by 10 points against the US dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Wednesday morning thanks to positive sentiment over the government's achievement in lowering the corruption rate .
It showed that the fight against corruption , the reform of the bureaucracy in particular , was beginning to be appreciated by the market , Rully Nova , foreign exchange analyst of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk , said here on Wednesday .
The intensified graft eradication efforts contributed to the market's positive sentiment and encouraged market players to speculatively buy rupiah and release dollars , he said .
The campaign being conducted by the Corruption Eradication Commission KPK was successfully deterring corrupt state officials , he said .
Besides , the strengthening of the rupiah was also caused by market players looking for profits by gradually releasing their dollars after the greenback strengthened over the past few days .
Meanwhile , the dollar which had earlier tumbled against other global major currencies , started to recover as market players were waiting for the US government's plan to inject US $ 700 billion to take over non-performing loans in the US property sector .
The euro fell to 1.4657 from 1,4796 per dollar. The dollar was up 105.49 from 105.42 against yen .
The rupiah was expected to strengthen further in the afternoon as the positive sentiment had the potential of continuing to bost the local unit .
Bank Indonesia governor Boediono said here on Monday that the central bank would always be in the market to face rupiah fluctuations .
BI will always be in the market but not oppose the stream .
We will make the rupiah movement smooth through implementation of correct policy , he said at a fast breaking gathering .
He said the policy to be used would not run against the stream that came from global movement because fighting it would need huge reserve funds .
We will enter the market using foreign exchange reserves wisely and acceptable to the market , he said .
He said the country's foreign exchange reserves now stood at US $ 58.4 billion .
It once reached more than US $ 59 but it went up and down for market operations , he said .
He said last week's fluctuations were caused by global nervous conditions because of a world economic slowdown , high inflation and damage in the economic system in the US and Europe .
In such a condition global market players will certainly try to secure their funds and bring them to their own countries and this is what has caused pressure on the rupiah , he said .
Boediono said many market players had now also considered the US dollar as the right currency for their investment so that its value had been increasing .
This condition will not last long because investors will put their money in more attractive sectors , he said .
Boediono said Indonesia's economic condition was not as bad as in other countries such as in the US , Europe and other Asian countries .
Indonesia is only facing a high inflation compared to other countries which are not only facing a high inflation but also an economic slowdown and disrupted financial system , he said .
The Asian Development Bank ADB predicts Indonesia will play a significant role in creating Asian integration as global economic power .
So far , Indonesia has shown its important role in forming regionalism by , among other things , being one of the ASEAN founders and initiating a series of international meetings in Bali , ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda said in a seminar Emerging Asian Regionalism Trends and Challenges at the Borobudur Hotel here on Wednesday .
Indonesia would also host the 42nd annual ADB meeting scheduled for 2009 in Bali , he said .
The ADB chief noted that the global economy tended to shift to the Asian region , with a population of nearly 3.9 billion .
Asian integration may be just a dream .
But the dream full of challenges may come into reality any time in the future through small steps we can take , he said .
Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Elka Pangestu meanwhile said since the economic crisis engulfed a number of countries in 1998 ASEAN member states and their neighbors had been integrated in terms of finance and trade .
She said Indonesia was ready to step up its cooperation with other countries in trade , investment and financial sectors .
Bank Mandiri , Indonesia's largest state lender , has raised its lending rate by 0.75 percent due to a rise in its cost of funds .
The lending rate rose 0.75 percent .
The benchmark interest rate or BI Rate has several times been raised .
And we raised our lending rate only this week , the bank's micro and retail director , Budi G Sadikin , said here on Thursday .
The BI Rate currently stands at 9.25 percent. Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI has raised the key rate for the fifth month in a row since May 2008 .
Consequently , annual retail and micro interest rates would increase to 12-18.75 percent. Earlier , the monthly rate was 1-1.5 percent , he said .
He said the amount of micro small and medium business credits channled by the bank in the first half of 2008 stood at around Rp20 trillion .
Since early this year , the bank had channeled credits worth around Rp250 billion to farmers in support of the country's food security program , he said .
The loans for the country's food security program carry 12 percent interest , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI governor Boediono said here on Thursday the central bank had decided to raise the BI rate by 25 basis points to 9.25 percent to control aggregate demand rise which could push price hike .
It is aimed at controlling demand so that it will not jump , he said .
The central bank made the decision which was the fifth since May this year in a board of governors' meeting on Thursday .
The bank saw threats on the inflation were still strong forcing it to raise the key rate .
Until now pressures on the inflation remained strong as a result of fast demand growth , he said .
He said Bank Indonesia remained cautious over hike pressures on energy , food and commodity prices in the world market although they had already died down .
Bank Indonesia still considered it important to maintain and secure demand so that it continued to grow within a safe corridor to assure achievement of targets and economic stability in general within a short term , he said .
To reach the goal he said Bank Indonesia would optimize the use of all policy instruments available .
Bank Indonesia Governor Boediono advised banks here on Thursday to start exercising prudence in distributing credits .
We want normal growth to balance with the inflation target .
This means that banks must start being prudent in distributing their credits .
They must be careful not to make a commitment while the fund for them is not yet secured .
So with the signal that we have given , we hope banks would adjust themselves , he said .
The central bank had signalled it would control demands by raising the key rate by 25 points to 9.25 percent .
The decision was made to prevent demands from increasing , he said .
Economic observer Tony A Prasetyantono said the BI rate hike could slow down credit growth in case it went too fast .
Right now there has been an overheating with credit growth reaching 35 percent and lending to deposit ratio to 76 percent. This , I think , must be controlled .
The rate hike would force banks to raise their lending rate to control credit distribution , he said .
Tony said the rate hike was also needed to overcome liquidity problems in banks .
The recent drop in the world price of oil to up to US $ 105 per barrel could reduce oil and electricity subsidy and lower the government's budget deficit than current projection of 1.6 to 1.7 percent or around Rp82.3 trillion .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said after a coordination meeting with central bank officials here on Thursday said the current projected deficit of 1.6 to 1.7 percent was made based on the annual average price of Indonesian crude of US $ 130 per barrel .
Until August 2008 the average price of Indonesian crude was around US $ 122 per barrel , she said .
According to her if the average price of Indonesian crude drops , the oil and electricity subsidy of around Rp234 trillion will be down .
In the case of oil subsidy the drop will depend upon the consumption rate while in the case of electricity subsidy it depends upon its gross volume .
If the basis is the price used by the state electricity company PT PLN or for fuel oil realization of subsidy may be much lower , she said .
She however also warned that the drop in Indonesian crude price would automatically be followed by a reduction in tax and non-tax state income from gas and oil and other natural resources .
Only the net will remain positive , she said .
The rupiah slowly but surely edged closer to Rp9,100 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday morning following a rush for the local unit , a money market observer said .
The rupiah continues to strengthen to Rp9,100 per dollar although it is not easy for the rupiah to reach the level because of many constraints , Edwin Sinaga said on Thursday .
The rupiah slightly rose by two points to Rp9,115 / 9,117 per dollar on Thursday morning compared with Rp9,117 / 9,133 per dollar on Tuesday .
He said the rupiah still needed time to reach Rp9,100 per dollar .
On Monday , the Indonesian currency once hit Rp9,105 per dollar but it later fell to Rp9,133 per dollar .
We are optimistic the rupiah will reach the level thanks to positive market sentiments towards the Indonesian currency , he said .
The domestic money market still showed signs of positive sentiments .
However , the financial crisis affecting the United States and Europe would at least have a negative impact on the rupiah's movement , he said .
He said Bank Indonesia the central bank's intervention in the money market and an inflow of foreign capital gave a boost to the rupiah .
The rupiah's current exchange rate was very stable and the local unit was expected to continue to strengthen to Rp9,100 per dollar in the days ahead , he said .
Earlier , the rupiah traded at a range of Rp9,120 to Rp9,125 per dollar as investors were careful in making transactions despite the US greenback's weakening in the global market , he said .
Operating income rose 39.3 percent to Rp1.63 trillion in the first half of 2008 from Rp1.17 trillion in the same period last year , according to the company's midyearly financial report published on Thursday .
Operating profit climbed 71.1 percent to Rp715.86 billion and earning per share increased to Rp54 from Rp15 in the first half last year .
Publicly-listed cigarette maker PT HM Sampoerna Tbk announced on Thursday its net profit in the first half of 2008 fell 5.3 percent to Rp1.965 trillion from Rp2.075 trillion in the same period last year .
A rise in operating expenses to Rp1.619 trillion in the first semester of 2008 from Rp1.307 trillion in the same period last year was mainly responsible for the drop in first-semester net profit , according to the company's midyearly financial report .
Consequently , operating profit fell to Rp3.057 trillion from Rp3.065 trillion while at the same time miscellaneous expenses more than trippled to Rp186.91 billion from Rp58.39 billion due in part to pension programs .
Net sales rose 15.6 percent to Rp16.697 trillion in the first half of 2008 from Rp14.440 trillion in the same period last year while sale expenses rose to Rp12.020 trillion from Rp10.067 trillion .
The company's total assets were recorded at Rp14.618 trillion as per June 30 , 2008 compared with Rp14.742 trillion previously .
State owned steel maker PT Krakatau Steel has obtained a credit facility for a non-cash loan from Bank BNI worth US $ 1.46 trillion , consisting of US $ 75 million about Rp712 billion and Rp 750 billion .
The credit was officially handed over under a credit agreement signed by Khrisna R Suparto , BNI's corporate director and Fazwa Bujang , PT Krakatau Steel's president director , here on Thursday .
The credit indicated that the steel industry is a very potential business in line with the world's demands for steel , Khrisna said .
The credit facility L / C on import ceiling , standby L / C , including a bank guarantee .
The one-year credit facility would be used to buy raw materials , supporting materials and spareparts in a bid to meet increasing demans for steel on the domestic market .
The rupiah edged closer to Rp9,150 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Friday evening as investors bought the local unit following the US greenback's fall against Asian currencies , an analyst said .
The rupiah's rise was relatively small because investors were still careful in buying the rupiah in large amounts despite foreign investors' worries about US economic growth , the retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , Kostaman Thayib , said on Friday .
The rupiah rose four points to Rp9,155 / 9,157 per dollar on Friday evening compared with Rp9,159 / 9,172 per dollar the day before .
He said the rupiah's slight increase mainly resulted from the rupiah buyups ahead of Friday's closing session .
The rupiah was earlier expected to trade at Rp9,150 per dollar because of a positive sentiment from the sale of the state global bonds abroad , he said .
He said the rupiah also received a boost as short-term investors were active in putting their funds in Bank Indonesia central bank instruments .
Therefore , the rupiah's chance to strengthen to Rp9,150 per dollar was still wide open , he said .
We are optimistic the rupiah still can strengthen further , the more so because foreign investors have shown great interest in investing in the domestic market , he said .
He predicted the rupiah would move upward early next week on concerns the US financial crisis would put a further strain on the dollar .
In response to the worries about the US financial sector , the Federal Reserve would unlikely raise its interest rate again , he said .
We are optimistic the Fed will keep its interest rate unchanged , he said .
The House of Representatives DPR and the government have agreed to reduce income tax tariff by 50 percent of normal tariffs for small and medium micro businesses which have legal entities .
The reduced income tax tariff was given to taxpayers with a business turnover of Rp4.8 billion to Rp50 billion per annum , Drajat Wibowo , member of the House's working committee on income tax bill , said at the weekend .
Citing an example , he said , if a resident taxpayer had a business turnover of Rp5 billion and posted a net profit of Rp500 million , his / her income totaling Rp480 million would be subject to a 14 percent income tax tariff .
Meanwhile , the remaining Rp20 million would be subject to a 28 percent normal tariff , he said .
If the small and medium macro entrepreneurs had no legal entities , they would be treated as individual taxpayers and subject to progressive tariff accordingly , he said .
Under the new agreement , the bigger the business turnover of small and medium macro entrepreneurs the smaller the proportion of incentives or facilities to income tax without incentives would be , he said .
He further said the House and the government also agreed to reduce income tax tariff by 5 percent of normal tariffs for publicly-listed companies which sell at least 48 percent of their shares in the Indonesia stock exchange .
The rupiah slightly rose by 5 points to Rp9,327 / 9,330 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Tuesday evening after it weakened in the morning , a foreign exchange analyst said .
The rupiah strengthened against the dollar as investors speculated about buying the rupiah following a strengthening of the regional stock exchange's index , Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk said on Tuesday .
He said the rupiah strengthened against the US greenback after Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI released funds from its foreign exchange reserves to ease negative pressure on the Indonesian currency .
The rupiah was expected to return to the previous level of Rp9,300 per dollar if BI kept abreast of further developments , he said .
BI wanted to keep the rupiah below Rp9,300 per dollar and therefore , it would continue to intervene in the market , he said .
The central bank considered the rupiah to be in safe position if it traded below Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
I am optimistic the rupiah will strengthen in the ensuing days as market sentiment tends to support it , he said .
Moreover , a turbulence in global crude prices had eased and concerns about the looming US financial crisis had shown no sign of abating after the US largest financial company , Lehman Brother , suffered huge losses , he said .
Given BI's intervention in the market , the rupiah's chance of sthengthening further in the ensuing days is wide open , he said .
BI had also raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 8.50 percent to boost the rupiah's appreciation against the dollar , he said .
The central bank also had foreign exchange reserves which were large enough to further intervene in the money market , he said .
The government and the House of Representatives DPR are looking into the possibility of raising the country's gross domestic product GDP to Rp5,275.9 trillion by relying on exports and investments .
With the GDP reaching that amount , our per capita GDP has actually exceeded US $ 2,700 .
But it seems that we were still at the level of middle income countries , Syahrial Loetan , secretary of the state minister for national development planning / chief secretary of the National Development Planning Agency Bappenas , said on Monday .
Hopefully , non-oil / non-gas exports would be the main foreign exchange earner while natural resources would be the main factor to attract investments next year , he said .
But we must keep in mind that the improving economy will make the people's consumption stronger , he said .
The Rp5,275.9 trillion GDP could be achieved if the economy grew by 6.2 percent and the inflation rate reached 6.5 percent , he said .
After all , being at the level of middle income countries would make it difficult for Indonesia to obtain very soft loans , he said .
Today , almost all loans are available only under commercial schemes , he said .
According to official data , the country's macro assumptions in the year up to May 2008 show the economic growth rate was recorded at 6.3 percent , the inflation rate at 10.4 percent , the interest rate on Bank Indonesia Certificates SBI for three-month deposits at 8.1 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate at Rp9,254 per dollar , Indonesian crude prices ICP at US $ 104.8 a barrel , oil production at 922,500 barrels per day , fuel consumption at 16.4 million kiloliters .
In the the revised 2008 state budget , the target of economic growth rate for 2008 has been set at 6.4 percent , inflation rate 6.5 percent , interest rate on SBI for three-month deposits 7.5 percent , the rupiah's exchange rate Rp9,100 per dollar , ICP US $ 95 a barrel , oil production 927,000 barrels per day , and oil consumption 35.5 million kiloliters .
Indonesia's plan to restrict its tin production , if realized , will have an impact on the global tin market as research conducted by many institutions has shown global tin production is lower than demand , a tin mining executive said .
We still do not know what the impact will be on PT Timah Tbk's performance , if the government restricts the country's tin production starting in 2009 , Abrun Abubakar , corporate secretary of publicly-listed tin mining company PT Timah Tbk , said on Monday .
Neither do we know what PT Timah's prodution ceiling will be .
As far as we know , a regulation restricting Indonesia's tin production has not yet been issued , he said .
The government is expected to restrict the country's tin production starting in 2009 to control global tin prices .
Indonesia is the world's biggest tin exporter and second biggest tin producer .
Director General of Mineral , Coal and Geothermal Energy at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry Simon Sembiring said recently the government planned to slash the country's tin production by 90,000-100,000 tons per year starting next year .
If we produce and export large quantitites of tin , its prices can fall in the global market , he said .
Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank has raised the maximum limit of inter-bank money transfers via automatic teller machines ATMs from Rp10 million to Rp25 million per account per day , an increase of Rp15 million .
The raise was stipulated in Central Bank's Notification Letter SEBI No.10 / 20 / DASP dated May 8 which replaced SEBI No 7 / 60 / DASP .
The central bank had made the change as the old limit was considered no longer suited to the public's present needs which had increased due to inflation , increased need to make transactions on holidays and for international transfer transactions .
The adjustment in the maximum limit was expected to enable the public to make economic transactions at higher speed while it was only effective for interbank transfers through ATMs and not for over-booking activity .
The new regulation was also not applicable to inter-banking transfers through other means , including bank clearance and real time gross settlement RTGS .
To protect bank clients , the central bank did not change the maximum limit for cash withdrawals through ATMs which remained at Rp10 million per account per day .
The rupiah rose five points to Rp9,325 / 9,330 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Wednesday morning after it closed at Rp9,340 / 9,350 the day before .
Improvements in the regional stock market fueled by the strengthening of the Wall Street bourse and the fall of the world crude price encouraged traders to purchase rupiahs , Rully Nova , foreign exchange analyst of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara , said here on Wednesday .
He said the volume of rupiahs traded was still relatively small because traders were still cautious about market developments .
They were still concerned about fluctuations in the world crude price .
But at least , he said , the rupiah's surge which had been taking place since Tuesday had moved it to a position that was relatively far from Rp9,400 per dollar .
It was feared if the rupiah reached this level , it would continue to plunge .
The rupiah's surge was also attributed to the abatement in student demonstrations against the fuel oil price hikes .
The government raised fuel oil prices by an average of 28.7 percent on Friday last week .
He said the rupiah was expected to continue to strengthen in the wake of the entry into the money market of the central bank , Bank Indonesia BI .
BI will intervene in the market to boost the rupiah so that it would reach a position under Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani said the money Indonesia would save by quitting the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC was not very significant .
We can save money by no longer paying the membership fee but the amount is not very significant .
If Indonesia leaves OPEC , the act will be more like a gesture or of symbolic significance , the minister said here on Thursday .
She said when Indonesia pulls out from OPEC it would be a moral message to the organization's members as membership in OPEC was based on a country's ability to produce oil .
Indonesia's production capacity is only about one million barrels per day so it will not have much effect on OPEC , she said .
The minister said Indonesia's membership fee for 2008 was only about US $ 800,000 and it had been paid .
Mulyani said if the decision to terminate the country's membership in OPEC was made now , it would probably be realized next year .
The energy and mineral resources minister would then handle the exit formalities .
The finance minister noted that OPEC's objective when it was established was to regulate world oil supplies in an effort to maintain price stability .
The latest situation in Indonesia no longer allowed Indonesia to remain in OPEC because its oil consumption was bigger than it could produce .
She said oil price developments in the world were no longer decided by supply and demand .
High oil prices reduce the ability of developing countries , including Indonesia , to improve the welfare of their peoples , she said .
Given Indonesia's current status as a net oil importer , the government would rather concentrate on increasing national oil production to meet domestic demand instead of continuing to participate in efforts to influence world oil prices , he said .
Indonesia's annual receipts from excises up to last July 31 reached Rp28.25 trillion accounting for 61.8 percent of the target of Rp45.72 trillion set in the revised 2008 state budget .
Import duty receipts stood at Rp12.33 trillion or 77.93 percent of the target of Rp15.82 trillion for 2008 , the directorate general of customs and excises said in an online report on Monday .
Export duty revenues were recorded at Rp10.27 trillion or 92.06 percent of the target of Rp11.16 trillion for this year , it said .
Therefore , the state revenues collected by the directorate general by July 31 , 2008 reached Rp50.85 trillion out of the target of Rp74.70 trillion pursuant to Law No.16 / 2008 on the revised 2008 state budget .
Earlier , the Directorate General of Customs and Excise said it collected state revenues totaling Rp42.36 trillion in the first half of 2008 , accounting for 56.71 percent of the target set in the revised 2008 state budget .
The figure consists of import duty revenue worth Rp10.9 trillion , export duty revenue Rp8.67 trillion and excise Rp23.60 trillion .
Publicly-listed financial service company PT Sinar Mas Multiartha Tbk has injected Rp75 billion in fresh funds into its subsidiary PT Bank Sinarmas , a spokesman said .
The additional capital does not exceed 10 percent of our corporate income and 20 percent of our equity so it does not have a material impact , Sinarmas Multiartha President Director Edward H Hadidjaja said on Monday .
Publicly-listed financial services company PT Buana Finance Tbk said on Monday its net profit in the first half of 2008 fell 41 percent to Rp32.121 billion from Rp45.190 billion a year earlier .
Operating profit in the first semester of 2008 dropped to Rp46.442 billion from Rp64.925 billion in the same period last year , the company's corporate secretary , Sudiono Pujo , said .
The drop in net profit slashed earning per share to Rp23 from Rp32 .
The company's debts rose to Rp809.301 billion from Rp542.089 billion. However , corporate income increased to Rp128.575 billion from Rp121.606 billion .
Indonesia's year-on-year inflation rate at the end of 2008 will range between 11.5 percent and 12.5 percent , Bank Indonesia BI , the central bank , estimated in a press statement issued here on Tuesday .
It said the estimate was made regardless of the fact that the monthly and yearly inflation rates in July 2008 was respectively recorded at 1.37 percent and at 11.9 percent where the latter was slightly higher than that a year earlier at 11.03 percent .
The BI said by taking into account several risk factors and inflationary pressures that were likely to emerge until the year end , the BI estimated the year-end inflation rate would be recorded at about 11.5-12.5 percent .
In the meantime , Indonesia's balance of payments was also expected to perform better so that the stability of currency exchange rates would also be well maintained .
Foreign exchange reserves up to the end of July 2008 stood at US $ 60.56 billion or equivalent to the amount needed to finance imports for 4.7 months and payment of the government's external debts .
Earlier in the day on Tuesday , BI's board of governors decided to raise the BI rate by 25 basis points from 8.75 percent to 9.00 percent .
The rupiah rose 15 points to Rp9,078 / 9,085 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Tuesday following Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI's decision to raise its key interest rate earlier in the day .
BI's board of governors decided at its meeting on Tuesday to raise its key rate by 25 basis points to 9 percent from 8.75 percent , citing future risks of inflationary pressure originating from global crude and food price turbulence and demand pressure .
The rise in the benchmark interest rate , locally known as BI Rate , prompted investors to buy the rupiah , the retail banking director of Bank Mega Tbk , Kostaman Thayib , said .
He said he believed foreign investors would continue to invest in the domestic market due to the higher BI Rate .
Foreign investment portfolios would continue to flow into the country , he said adding foreign investors believed the Indonesian economy would pick up despite a global economic slowdown .
Moreover , global economic growth had been shifting to Asia from the United States and Europe , he said .
The rupiah had earlier strengthened to Rp9,070 per dollar before it closed at Rp9,078 per dollar as investors reduced their rupiah buyups ahead of Tuesday's closing session .
He said the rupiah still had room to strengthen to Rp9,000 in the days ahead thanks to positive market sentiments including the return of local funds invested abroad .
The global crude prices which tended to fall to US $ 120 a barrel at present would also boost the rupiah to strengthen further , he said .
We are optimistic the rupiah will hit Rp9,000 per dollar. It is merely a matter of time for the local unit to reach this level , he said .
The rupiah plunged to more than Rp9,100 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday morning as investors sold the local unit for profit .
The rupiah traded at Rp9,110 / 9,115 per dollar compared with Rp9,063 / 9,087 per dollar the day before , down by 47 points .
Investors' consolidated actions still continued as the rupiah's current position was considered fairly stable , foreign exchange analyst Rully Nova of PT Bank Himpunan Saudara Tbk. said .
This was merely a technical matter and the rupiah still had a chance to strengthen again , he said .
We are optimistic the rupiah still will appreciate again .
The rise in BI Rate by 25 basis points to 9 percent will boost the rupiah's appreciation as foreign investors are expected to increase their investment portfolios in the country , he said .
He said Bank Indonesia the central bank / BI had earlier expected the rupiah to strengthen at a range of Rp9,150-Rp9,175 per dollar .
The rupiah traded at below Rp9,100 per dollar over the past few days .
The rupiah's current exchange rate met BI's expectation , he said .
BI would always try to prevent the rupiah from falling , the more so because it had adequate foreign exchange reserves , he said .
PT International Nickel Indonesia Inco said on Thursday its net profit in the first half of 2008 plunged 58.2 percent to US $ 295.6 million from the same period last year on declining sales .
Sales in the first semester of 2008 fell 37.3 percent to US $ 819.2 million from US $ 1.305 billion in the same period last year , Inco President Director Arif Siregar said in a press statement .
The declining sales were the result of a 4.9 percent drop in nickel matte production in the first half of this year to 37,151 metric tons from 39,052 metric tons in the previous semester , he said .
As previously expected , the low production in the second quarter of 2008 was caused by a delay in the maintenance of equipment from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2008 and the unscheduled maintenance of equipment , he said .
For its part , Inco must repair a reduction kiln because damage to a bullgear spring as well as to one of electrical kilns reduced production by an estimated 1,800 metric tons , he said .
We are trying to offset the lost production before the end of this year so we can achieve the production target of 77,000-79,000 metric tons for 2008 , he said .
PT Indosat ISAT will hold an extraordinary shareholders' meeting RUPSLB on August 25 , 2008 to discuss a plan to change the structure of its board of directors and board of commissioners following Qatar Telcom's acquisition of most of the company's shares .
ISAT's corporate secretary Strasfiatri Auliana said on Friday the decision to change the structure of the company's boards of directors and commissioners was taken after Qatar Telcom purchased a 100-percent stake in Indonesian Communication Limited ICL which controls 40.8 percent of ISAT's shares .
With its entry into ISAT , Qatar Telcom will place its representatives in Indonesia's second largest telecommunications operator , namely to replace representatives of Singapore's giant Temasek .
The value of ISAT's shares is estimated at US $ 1.8 billion .
About 40.8 percent of ISAT's stake is controlled by Asia Mobile Holdings AMH , a company whose 75 percent shares are owned by ST Telemedia which is fully owned by Temasek .
Currently , the composition of ISAT's board of commissioners consists of Peter Seah Lim Laut as chief commissioner and Jarman , Rionald Silaban , Sio Tat Hiang , Sum Soon Lim , Sheikh Muhammed bin Suhaim Hamad Al-Thani , Lim Ah Doo , Setyanto P Santoso and Soeprapto SIP as board members .
ISAT's present board of directors consists of Johnny Swandi Sjam as president director , Kaizad Bomi Heerjee as vice president director and Wahyu Wijayadi , Raymond Tan Kim Meng , Fadzri Sentosa , Syakieb A Sungkar , Wong Heang Tuck , Roy Kannan and Guntur S Siboro as directors .
The government will pursue other ways to persuade a number of coal mining companies to pay royalties they owe the state if a travel ban imposed on their top executives recently does not work , a Finance Ministry official said .
We have another mechanism but we cannot disclose it now , said Hadiyanto , the ministry's director general for state assets , said here Friday .
He said the travel bans which would expire in January 2009 had been issued on the top executives of coal mining companies that had not yet paid royalties on their coal mining operations to the government .
With the issuance of the travel bans we hope they will realize that withholding state money is a mistake .
We will lift the bans as soon as they transfer the money to the state , he said .
He said one of the royalty debtors had come to his office to lodge a protest against the travel bans .
The receivables have fallen due and the funds are in their hands while they do not realize that the money actually belongs to the state , he added .
The rupiah fell 4 points to Rp9,169 / 9,175 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market late Monday from Rp9,1965 / 9,170 per dollar at the weekend .
The rupiah fell slightly after Bank Indonesia the central banl / BI intervened in the market to support the Indonesian currency's movement , Kostaman Thayib , retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , said .
BI's effort to release funds from its foreign exchange reserves gave positive sentiments to the local unit so that it did not plunge too far against the dollar , he said .
BI intervened in the market for fear the rupiah would worsen again to Rp9,300 per dollar , he said .
Demand for the US greenback was on the increase as local companies needed a great deal of dollars to repay their maturing debts , he said .
The rupiah traded at Rp9,200 and further Rp9,220 per dollar earlier in the day due to rising demand for the dollar following its appreciation in the global market , he said .
The rush for the dollar continued after global crude prices fell to US $ 115 a barrel , he said .
He expressed optimism the rupiah would strengthen again due in part to an inflow of foreign capital , he said .
BI had earlier raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 9.00 percent from 8.75 percent to deal with the rising global influence on the domestic market .
The high spread between the rupiah and dollar interest rates would continue to attract foreign investment , he said .
Publicly listed PT Barito Pacific Timber BRPT has officially acquired a 77.92-percent stake in PT Tri Polyta Indonesia Tbk TPI following the completion of TPI's tender offering , BRPT director Salwati Agustina said .
BRPT is an integrated timber company owned by Prayogo Pangestu while Tri Polyta is a chemical industry firm whose shares are also partly owned by Pangestu .
The rupiah in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market this morning rose as market players were still buying the Indonesian unit while a positive sentiment was still supporting the local currency's movements , a financial analyst said here on Wednesday .
The rupiah's position moved up eight points to Rp 9,170 / 9,175 per US dollar from Rp 9,178 / 9,190 against the US dollar on the previous day .
Money market analyst Edwin Sinaga said the increase in the rupiah's rate against the US dollar happened mainly because market players were still hunting for the Indonesian currency .
The rupiah's exchange rate still has a chance to strengthen further after undergoing an incisive price correction , he said .
Previously , the rupiah had strengthened to below Rp 9,100 per US dollar. However , due to the decline in the crude oil price which reached US $ 113,15 per barrel , the market preferred to buy US dollars .
The rupiah's position is stable .
Moreover , Bank Indonesia the central bank wants Indonesia's currency to be positioned below Rp 9,200 per US Dollar , he said .
He added this condition showed foreign investors' high trust in Indonesia's economic growth though it had slowed down in the second quarter of this year .
National economic growth is estimated to only reach six percent compared to 6.3 percent previously , Edwin said , adding that the rupiah still had a chance to rise further later in the day though the market had started to turn their attention to the US dollar after the decline in the world crude oil price .
However , the market's interest in the US dollar is still restrained as foreign investments are entering the country , especially investments from the Middle East and Australia , he said .
The state will be able to save up to Rp2.6 trillion if the average oil price stays at US4120 a barrel until the end of 2008 , a Finance Ministry official said .
The current oil price is US $ 124 per barrel .
The Finance Ministry calculates that the state will be able to save up to US $ 2.6 trillion if the oil price could be maintained at an average of US $ 120 a barrel , Anggito Abimayu , Head of Finance Ministry's Fiscal Policy Affairs , said here on Wednesday .
The saving of up to Rp2.6 trillion was made on the assumption that all ministries / state institutions used up to 100 percent of their expenditures in the 2008 state budget , he said .
With the expenditure surplus of Rp2.6 trillion the state budget deficit which is estimated at 1.9 percent in 2008 will be reduced to 1.8 percent , he said .
He said that the realization of the 2008 state budget deficit would depend on the realization of ministries / state institutions' expenditures amounting to Rp290 trillion .
Naturally , about 10 percent could be saved from ministries / state institutions' unspent budget but it is probable that they would absorb over 90 percent of the budget , Abimayu said .
The deficit of the revised 2008 state budget was set at 2.1 percent of the gross domestic product GDP or about Rp2.1 trillion .
The figure is the difference between the state revenues / grant worth Rp895 trillion and state expenditure worth Rp989.3 trillion .
State revenues consisted of domestic income worth Rp892 trillion and grantw Rp2.9 trillion .
Domestic income consisted of Rp609.2 trillion in tax revenues and Rp282.8 trillion in non-tax receipts .
But in its semester one report of 2008 , the government predicted that the deficit of the 2008 state budget would reach 1.9 percent or Rp90.6 trillion .
The figure is obtained from the difference between state revenue / grant amounting to Rp1,007 trillion and state expenditure worth Rp1,097.6 trillion .
Net sales in the first semester of 2008 jumped 59 percent to Rp1.94 trillion from Rp1.22 trillion in the same period last year due to higher CPO prices on the global market , according to the company's midyearly financial statement .
The rise in net sales pushed up the company's operating profit to Rp756.43 billion compared to Rp367.16 billion .
Profit before tax surged to Rp764.60 billion from Rp278.60 billion and earnings per share climbed to Rp385 from Rp122 .
PT Indo Tambangraya Megah , Indonesia's third largest publicly-listed coal mining company , booked US $ 59.38 million in net profit in the first half of this year on higher sales .
The net profit in the first semester of 2008 more than trippled compared to the same period last year when the figure was US $ 21.19 million , according to the company's midyearly financial statement published on Thursday .
Net sales in the first half of 2008 surged 51 percent to US $ 516.36 million from US $ 341.70 million a year earlier , causing operating profit to climb to US $ 95.84 million from US $ 46.74 million .
Established in 1987 , Indo Tambangraya currently manages 87,560 hectares of coal mining concessions in South Kalimantan and East Kalimantan .
Banpu Public Company took over Indo Tambangraya in 2001 .
The rupiah's exchange rate against the US dollar in the Jakarta inter-bank spot market on Thursday afternoon declined but remained in a slightly better position than in the morning because of the central bank's intervention in the market .
Bank Indonesia the central bank entered the market by releasing US dollars to reduce market pressure on the rupiah although its position was still under pressure , a money market analyst , Edwin Sinaga , said here Thursday .
The rupiah's position moved down ten points to Rp9.178 / 9.180 per US dollar with the morning session reaching almost Rp9.200 per US dollar from Rp 9,178 / 9,190 on the previous day .
However , the rupiah's position at 9.178 / 9.180 per US dollar was still considered positive because it was below Rp9.200 , he said .
The rupiah's position at that level , below 9.200 per US dollar , was considered safe by Bank Indonesia , he added .
The local unit strengthened to below 9.100 per US dollar once reaching 9.080 per US dollar .
It was the sharpest increase it had ever made .
However , the rupiah did not remain long in this position after the decrease in the world crude price and a correction because foreign and local market players were active in purchasing US dollars to buy crude oil or pay maturing debts , he said .
The rupiah still had a chance to rise until the end of this year to the level of 9,000 per US dollar but the Indonesian currency was restrained by the weakening global economic fluctuation .
Moreover , foreign investors tended to increase their investment in the country by actively producing Bank Indonesia instruments in the money market due to the high difference of rupiah interest against US dollar .
We are still optimistic the Indonesian market will give more gain than other Asian markets , he said .
The Indonesian economy expanded 2.44 percent in the second quarter of 2008 , bringing the country's economic growth in the first half of this year to 6.36 percent and the year-on-year economic growth to 6.39 percent .
The country's gross domestic product GDP stood at Rp1,230.9 trillion based on the current prices in the second quarter of 2008 and Rp518.2 trillion based on the constant prices of 2000 , Slamet Soetomo , deputy for balance sheet and statistic analysis to the head of the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS , said on Thursday .
This is consistent with the business tendency index .
The second-quarter business tendency index exceeded 100 , to be exact 111.72 , indictating that the business condition is getting better , he said .
The BPS noted that three sectors saw higher growth in the second quarter of 2008 than in the previous quarter .
They are the agricultural sector which expanded 5.08 percent , the transportation and communication sector 4.1 percent and the electricity , gas and clean water sector 3.6 percent .
Compared to the same period last year , the transportation and communication sector grew 19.6 percent , the electricty , gas and clean water sector 11.2 percent , and the finance , real estate and financial service sector 8.7 percent .
The agricultural sector grew 5.08 percent thanks to the high prices of plantation commodities such as CPO , rubber and pepper on the export market , he said .
The processing industry , the agricultural sector , the trade , hotel and restaurant sector contributed 27.3 percent , 14.7 percent and 14.3 percent respectively to the GDP in the second quarter of 2008 .
But the BPS noted the agricultural sector saw a decline in its capacity to create added value compared to the previous year .
This is apparently because of seasonal factors for which we need to keep watch in the future , he said .
Compared to the previous quarter , household consumption in the second quarter of 2008 rose 1.1 percent , government consumption 21.2 percent , gross fixed capital 2.4 percent , goods and service exports 5.2 percent and goods and service imports 5.4 percent .
Compared to the same period last year , household consumption in the second quarter of 2008 increased 5.3 percent , government consumption 2.2 percent , gross fixed capital 12.8 percent , goods and service exports 16.1 percent and goods and service imports 16.7 percent .
Citi Corp analysts predicted Thursday the Indonesian economy will grow 6 percent in 2008 after the Central Bureau of Statistics BPS announced earlier in the day the country's economy expanded 6.36 percent in the first half of this year .
The first-half economic growth rate came as a surprise as it exceeded the economic growth rate forecast of 6.1 percent , the analysts said in a press statement .
The higher-than-expected economic growth lowered the risks of foreign and domestic demands , they said .
They predicted the Indonesian economy would grow at a moderate level this year amidst the current global economic slowdown .
The government continued to expect a rise in tax receipts next year despite a cut in income tax rate for bodies to 28 percent from 30 percent and income tax rate for individuals to 30 percent from 35 percent pursuant to the new income tax law , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said in his state-of-the-nation address before the House of Representatives DPR here Friday .
He said income tax rate for small and medium enterprises remained at 15 percent or 50 percent lower than the income tax rate for bodies .
In addition , the government had also decided to raise the amount of untaxed income of individual taxpayers to Rp15.8 million from Rp13.2 million previously to ease small and medium scale taxpayers' burden , he said .
All of this is a form of equility in our tax policy , an equality accompanied by responsibility .
We shall continue to take measures for the expansion of the tax base and the improvement of tax administrative system aimed at reaching the increasingly high target , he said .
The president said non-tax state receipts were projected to increase to Rp295.3 trillion next year , or an increase of Rp12.5 trillion from the revised 2008 state budget .
The government will allocate Rp227.2 trillion or 27.8 percent of its eexpenditures in the 2009 State Budget to subsidies , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said .
The amounts to be spent on various subsidies in the 2009 Draft State Budget would be Rp 101.4 trillion for fuel oil,Rp60.4 trillion for electricity and Rp60.4 trillion for food , fertilizer and seedlings , Yudhoyono said in his State-of-the-Nation address at a House of Representatives DPR plenary session here Friday .
The government indeed is committed to maintaining economic stability by controlling the prices of fuel oil and the basic electricity tariff , he said .
The government , however , would continue to amend the subsidy policy in order to reduce budget leakages , prevent misdirection , and to evaluate the subsidy budget based on current developments in the global oil price , he added .
Yudhoyono expressed appreciation to the public and business sector for their understanding on the policy of shifting the working hours for the industrial sector in order to reduce the electricity peak load .
Insya Allah God Willing , in the near future , electricity supply will increase through the development of 10,000 megawatt power generation that is fully supported by the government , he said .
The government has projected a deficit in the draft 2009 state budget at Rp99.6 trillion or 1.9 percent of the country's gross domestic product GDP .
State revenues and grants were expected to increase 14.3 percent to Rp1,022.6 trillion and state expenditures 13.4 percent to Rp1,122.2 trillion next year from the revised 2008 state budget , President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said in his state-of-the-nation address before the House of Representatives DPR here on Friday .
With the value of the draft 2009 state budget , our state revenues and expenditures will for the first time reach the level of more than Rp1,000 trillion since Indonesia proclaimed its independence , he said .
The draft 2009 state budget represented a remarkable rise compared to the 2005 state budget which stood at Rp500 trillion and indicated the increasingly important role of the state budget in the national economy and development , he said .
The budget allocation for the sectors was aimed at lowering poverty rate to 12-14 percent
encouraging public participation in the educational sector ranging from elementary to high education
increasing the coverage of free health services for low-income people treated in the class III at hospitals , improving basic health services for all citizens treated at public health service posts .
enabling people from all walks of live to have greater access to transportation services .
PT Sunson Textile Manufacturer Tbk SSTM said on Friday its net profit in the first semester of 2008 surged 275 percent to Rp15.888 billion from the same period last year due to higher operating income .
Operating profit in the first half of 2008 plunged to Rp1.135 billion from Rp4.742 billion in the same period last year .
However , miscellaneous income jumped to Rp27.711 billion , causing the net profit to surge , he said .
The government plans to sell three types of state bonds worth Rp3 trillion in an auction on August 26 , a Finance Ministry spokesman said .
The bonds up for auction would bear the serial numbers of SPN20090731 , FR0036 , and FR0050 , chief of the ministry's public relations service Samsuar Said said on Tuesday .
The SPN20090731 bonds will become due on July 31 , 2009 with discounted interest payments , he said .
The FR0036 bonds which carried a fixed interest rate of 11.5 percent would mature on September 15 , 2019 and the FR0050 bonds which carried a fixed interest rate of 10.5 percent would fall due on July 15 , 2038 , he said .
Interest on the FR0036 bonds would be paid every March 15 and September 15 and that on the FR0050 bonds every January 15 and July 15 , he said .
Bidders can submit both competitive and non-competitive purchase bids for the bonds .
The SPN20090731 bonds allocated for non-competitive purchase will be 50 percent while the FR0036 and FR0050 bonds allocated for non-competitive purchase will be 20 percent each .
The government had the right to sell the three types of state bonds at higher or lower prices than the indicative amount , he said .
The Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kadin said that the government's major challenge in 2009 was to take inflation under control owing to the fact that oil and commodity prices in the world market are still difficult to predict until the beginning of 2009 .
If the government is unable to control inflation , the purchasing power of the middle will also drop .
At present , domestic demand is still relatively good because the middle class has been able to maintain the level of its purchasing power , Bambang Soesatyo , chairman of Kadin's permanent committee for monetary and fiscal affairs , said here on Tuesday .
He said keeping inflation under control would be a key factor to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's electoral success next year , the more so because the economic growth target had been set at 6.2 percent on the back of domestic consumption and exports of non-oil , mining and plantation products .
The problem is whether or not we will achieve a good growth that can improve the people's purchasing power , lower the poverty rate and create jobs for both new and old workers , he said .
He said the steps likely be taken by banks in adjusting their interest rates and the legislative / presidential elections next year could serve as a stumbling block that the government had to pay attention to .
It is difficult to expect a significant expansion in investment because the business climate is not conducive due to increased risk factors , he added .
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati has estimated Indonesia's economic growth in the second quarter of 2008 at 6.1 percent so that the economic growth in the first semester of this year was estimated at 6.2 percent .
The minister told a press conference on Wednesday that the economic growth was fueled by household consumption , government expenditure , investment , exports , high raw material and capital good imports .
Household consumption grew 5.2-5.3 percent as spending for motor-vehicles and electricity remained high , the minister said .
She said investment grew 10.4-10.5 percent while in the same period last year it was only 7-8 percent .
We will continue to boost investment so that it would reach a two-digit growth at the end of the year , Mulyani said .
Indonesia's exports in the first semester of this year also booked a growth of 11.9-12.0 percent while imports grew by 11.1-11.2 percent , the minister said .
Imports of capital goods and raw materials were high while imports of consumption goods fell so that the economic growth in quarter 3 and 4 possibly dropped , she said .
On the realization of state expenditure , the minister said that it reached 36.7 percent of the 2008 revised state budget in the first semester .
It tended to be stagnant if compared with that in the same period a year earlier , which stood at 36.6 percent .
But this year's figure is better if compared with that in the first semester of 2006 which were 34.1 percent .
The realization of the central government's expenditure which reached 35.4 percent is better than that in 2007 which was 33.7 percent .
Transfer to the region reached 39.9 percent , the minister said .
Thus , the economic growth at the end of the year could be kept at 6.2 percent , a pace which would be slower than the previous projection at 6.4 percent .
This indicated that our economy is not immune to the global economic crisis , she added .
On the occasion , the minister also said that in the first semester of 2008 , the year-on-year inflation was recorded at 11.03 percent 6.5 percent in the state budget , Bank Indonesia's three - month certificate at 8.4 percent 7.5 pct in state budget and the rupiah exchange rate at Rp9,261 per one US dollar Rp9,100 .
Besides , Indonesia's crude price reached US $ 104.4 per barrel US $ 95 per barrel in the state budget , oil lifting 937.6 thousand barrels per day 927 thousands pbd in the state budget , volumes of subsidized fuel oil 19.6 million kiloliters of the quota of 35.5 million kiloliters and the volume of kerosene-to-LPG conversion 0.43 kiloliters of the quota of 2 million kiloliters .
The rupiah fell 10 points on Thursday morning after it sharply strengthened below Rp9,200 per dollar on Wednesday following a rush for the local unit on concerns the US economy would continue to slow down , an analyst said .
The persistent US financial crisis is the main factor of the US economic slowdown .
Still , the US dollar looks able to move upward , the retail banking director of PT Bank Mega Tbk , Kostaman Thayib , said on Thursday .
The rupiah closed at Rp9,170 / 9,175 per dollar in the Jakarta interbank spot market on Thursday morning compared with Rp9,160 / 9,192 per dollar on Wednesday .
Kostaman said the rupiah's fall was normal following its sharp increase so that it traded far below Rp9,200 per dollar .
This happened because investors sought to gain on the rupiah's sharp increase , he said .
The rupiah also came under pressure from the regional market following a drop in the Wall Street's index , he said adding the market was dominated by the rupiah's sell-offs on Thursday morning .
But he added the rupiah still had a chance to strengthen owing to positive market sentiments to the local unit .
The positive sentiments would cause the rupiah to edge closer to Rp9,150 per dollar .
However , the rupiah sell-offs to benefit from the rupiah's sharp rise would somewhat hinder its further appreciation .
He said a rush on the rupiah was likely to occur on Thursday evening following the rupiah's sell-offs in the morning .
The higher interest rate and foreign investors' active participation in the domestic market would likely cause the rupiah to strengthen far below Rp9,200 per dollar , he said .
Thus , the rupiah's chance of strengthening below Rp9,150 per dollar would be wide open , he said .
Meanwhile , the dollar rose 0.1 percent to 106.90 against the Japanese yen and to 1.5730 against the euro .
Indonesia's credit rating agency Pemeringkat Efek Indonesia Pefindo has reaffirmed its idA - rating for PT Bakrie Telecom Tbk BTEL and the private telecommunication company's Rp650 billion bonds I / 2007 with a stable outlook .
The ratings reflected a profitable wireless business sector and potential business growth , according to Pefindo in its press statement here on Thursday .
However , the ratings were constrained by profitability margin downward , a tight industrial competition , and the EBITDA growth which was slower than debts , it said .
BTEL was established in 1993 under the name of PT Radio Telepon Indonesia Ratelindo .
Ten years later , the company's name was changed into PT Bakrie Telecom with ' Esia ' as its brand name .
The company was one of the license holders of fixed wireless services with a limited mobility .
In delivering its telecommunication services , BTEL used a technology of CDMA 2000 1x at the frequency of 800 mHz .
After the company had gotten a national-coverage license , BTEL has expanded its businesses to Banten , West Java , Sumatra , Bali , and Sulawesi , in addition to Jakarta , according to Pefindo .
Bank Indonesia BI will study the possibility of raising banks' minimum reserves requirement GWMin order to offset increasing inflation as a result of the upward trend in world crude prices , BI Governor Boediono said .
Markus made the statement after signing an economic cooperation agreement between ICBC and the local government of Yunnan province .
He said the value of Indonesia-China trade in 2006 was recorded at 19.6 billion US dollars , adding that with the cooperation it was expected that the figure would increase 15 percent .
That is the target of the two nations where they will increase their bilateral trade to 30 billion US dollars in 2010 , he added .
Besides , Chinese investors were also expected to invest in Indonesia in the future .
With the entry of Chinese investment into Indonesia , economic conditions in the latter were expected to improve .
Thirty-five years ago , China was nothing compared with Indonesia .
Historically , inflation is a dominant economic problem besides work opportunity that has been faced for a long time by society in the world .
History indicates that one of the countries marked by rapid price increase is Egypt in around 330 BC .
According to Samuelson inflation problem is as old as market economy .
Inflation is an economic phenomenon that receives a lot of attention , and being afraid of at the same time and considered as enemy by economists , governments , entrepreneurs , up to public .
Certainly it because of the impact of inflation which is very harmful .
How harmful inflation itself can be described by some words launched by economists and government officers .
Ronald Reagan ever said inflation with terms ruthless , robbery , scaring , gunned robber , deathly , and professional killer .
Many efforts have been conducted to combat inflation , but there is no sign of ending .
As if depicting inflation as living creature that has its own protection mechanism from attacks of other living creatures , so it cannot be destroyed .
However it is certainly impossible because inflation itself is only a phenomenon , not living creature .
Several assessments and theories have been produced by economists as solution of inflation problem .
In this regard , there are three major theories describing on inflation , i.e. as follow .
Quantity theory or exchange equation from Irving Fisher .
This theory basically is a reflection of classic theory .
According to this equation increasing cause of goods in general tends to lead to inflation , there are three i.e. money circulation or public is too consumptive , too much money is distributed to public , and production decreases nationally .
Keynes theory states that inflation occurs because public lives beyond its economic capability .
In other words , inflation occurs because aggregate expenditure is too big .
Because of that , solution that must be taken is by reducing government expenditure or increasing tax , and tight money policy .
Structuralist theory or long term inflation theory .
This theory examines inflation causes that originate from rigidness of economic structure , especially strength of food material supply and goods .
Because of structural causes addition of these production goods is too slow compared to economic growth , so increasing food price and foreign exchange scarcity .
Further impact is increasing prices of other goods , so relatively long inflation occurs if development of food material producing sector and goods industry are not fixed or added .
In relation to the cause or source of inflation , economists have been able to analyze it and classify it into several categories .
However , different with the analysis result of economists on cause of inflation which is quite deep , the solution offered to solve inflation problem seems to be very shallow .
Despite in aspect of assessment and theory resulted by economists to describe inflation is quite a lot .
As proof can be seen from the concept of fractional reserve requirement system which so far has been implemented by central bank .
Fractional reserve requirement system is a banking system in which bank preserves ratio of deposit active as a guarantee for a bank that they have enough liquidity to face hard cash demand from depositor that can emerge abruptly or urgently .
Meanwhile this concept has received many sharp criticisms from many Moslem economists .
With this concept the bank can print or also multiply money to be larger which in turn affecting the amount of money distributed in public and eventually causing inflation .
This concept can work because supported by interest concept , fiat money and financial institution itself .
At one side the conventional economists argue that one causes of inflation is the amount of distributed money is high compared to the amount of goods and services available in market .
The only rational answer why that concept is operated is for the sake of interest of bank owner .
With the fractional reserve concept , bank owner can borrow its fund to deficit unit with compensation of interest that has been set .
Benefit taken by the bank via money interest is very big .
This has been actually condemned by Sir Josiah Stamp .
He said modern banking system creates money without capital .
This process may be a magnificent creation ever invented .
Banking was born in inequality and sin .
You can take anything from them , but allow right to create their money , then with a pen they will create enough money to buy back everything .
Take away this big power from their hands , then all wealth like I own will disappear , and there will be a new world that is better for life .
As such , it can be said , what has been exercised by conventional economists so far only seems like describing how inflation phenomenon occurs nicely , but cannot abolish or eliminate it .
Impact of inflation to real sector .
Same with explaining cause of inflation , when analyzing impact of inflation conventional economists also seem to have quite deep observation .
According to them , impact of inflation is very harmful for every section , particularly for society with fixed earning such as pensioner , low employee , and teacher .
Conventional economists generally divide inflation based on severity magnitude into four types , i.e. light inflation , mild or middle inflation , high inflation , and very high inflation .
Furthermore , conventional economists believe that effect or impact of inflation depends on whether the inflation is anticipated or not .
The meaning of anticipated inflation is when price experience relative increase every year , and at the same time there is also increase at wage and real interest in amount of 10 % .
As the result , occurring price change is only measurement change where public or government has anticipated the occurring inflation level .
In contrast , the unanticipated or unexpected inflation is inflation where increase of goods price that occur is not followed by increase of wage and real interest .
Based on the above classification inflation that frequently occurs factually is unexpected inflation .
This thing can be known from history of the world economy .
The impact of inflation itself can be classified into two groups , i.e. impact from economic aspect and impact from social aspect .
The followings are impacts of inflation according to economist .
From economic angle , inflation causes income redistribution and distortion of price , distortion of money use , and distortion of tax .
From social angle , further impact of income redistribution is increasing social jealousy and even can trigger riot or social crisis .
Discussion of the above inflation impact is general discussion .
It so happen impact of inflation to real sector , specially , is restricting or disturbing growth process in real sector .
It because , with occurrence of inflation public purchasing power will decrease and later on the decrease will cause producer to reduce production level that ends at discontinuance of employment relation and increase unemployment .
Besides that , when high inflation occurs then interest rate that set by monetary authority also increases .
Because of that , real sector at high interest rate experiences fund hardship either for increasing production or developing its business because increasing of capital cost .
Surplus unit is more interested in depositing its fund in bank with bigger and certain return rate and at the same time .
As the result is malfunction of intermediation task by common bank and fund accumulation occurs in central bank .
This fact that happened in the year 2007 where fund deposited in Indonesian Bank reached hundreds trillions Rupiah .
Furthermore , conventional economists also believe that out of four inflation types namely light inflation will give impact towards economic condition positively .
Even it is said inflation absence indicates there is no positive movement in economy because prices do not change so weakens industry sector .
This opinion is based on several reasons , i.e .
First , when goods relative price increase occurs , producer is more exited in operating and increasing its production .
Second , with increasing production then can create new job opportunity .
The above opinion can be analysis from two sides , i.e. consumer and producer sides .
From consumer side , even though inflation rate that occurs is light still burdening .
Particularly for poor people and at the same time do not have extra skill for work .
What has been said that light inflation rate can stimulate work force absorption basically only valid for them that have capability or skill .
Meanwhile for them that from the beginning are already in poverty , in which poverty cause them not to be able to reach or exercise their skill , then this reason is not valid .
In other words , light inflation that occurs still will heavily burden them which are poor and do not have skill .
Even more when goods price that increases is goods price of primary public need , even though price increase that occur is low still will burden poor people .
For example , say for instance a family head in which the monthly income that can be earned is Rp. 1.5 millions per month .
With light inflation rate of 5 % , then he must take care of inflation load of Rp. 75,000 per month .
Certainly this amount is quite big for the family head .
As the result , assumption that light inflation can provide positive effect to real economy is not correct .
Because only benefiting certain party .
Meanwhile seen from producer side , as if considering producer in producing only based on profit oriented only .
Meanwhile , a producer does not only exercise his production based on motive and profit orientation .
Meanwhile can also with humanity motive and or ruhiyah .
More than that , economists also actually argue that goods price increase either in big range or small still takes cost .
The costs , for example , are catalog change cost , complain cost and opportunity loss , change cost of law and regulation , and inconveniency cost of life .
In the middle of bankruptcy Moslem in the world and Indonesia to be specific , question emerges whether hope exist for reawakening .
Factual fact that must be faced is so heavy , even more if imaging vision to reach Islam as the world leader .
Because of that many Moslems took different positions , from optimist up to pessimist .
On the other side , there are people sticks to aqidah teaching , but there is also that crosses over the pattern and crossing but does not feel to harm aqidah .
In national context , Indonesian awaken was initiated on May 28 , 1908 .
Educated people found essential meaning to pursue independence in the middle of colonization pressure .
They later on initiated struggle form with clear context , namely for Indonesia to be free from alien colonialism .
Because of that , strong spirit to awake is started from understanding .
Understanding to jump from thinking to action that trapped and isolated from independence and dignified freedom .
Can be imagined how more than 300 years occupation at that time had castrated frame of thinking and mentality of Indonesian people .
For common people , may be , accepting depravation and suffering without power as regular thing .
For elite and educated , whose quality and power are better , at least have two alternatives , namely taking safe position or struggling to oppose oppression .
At the end , history proved our freedom struggle could only succeed because based on firm attitude and identity in opposing occupation .
Look from economic development approach of developing countries , there are two isms in considering backwardness of a country .
The first ism that consists of linear model and neoclassic considers backwardness is caused by attaching traditional characteristics .
Because of that , main recipe to progress society level is by injecting a certain economic formula dosage .
To guarantee absorption capacity required institution reformation , thinking pattern , value system , even consideration on religion .
It is aimed for changing traditional condition into modern and professional .
The second ism sees that backwardness is caused by existence of inequality and gap among countries .
It happens because developing countries are heavily depended on capital , technology , and expert from developed countries .
Dependency does not only occur naturally , but also created structurally in relationship pattern which abridged via international organizations .
This ism is considered successful in explaining global phenomenon that really exists but fails in formulating good development pattern , besides awakens resistance to aliens in form of strengthening nationalism .
Furthermore , this ism is in fact considered as embodiment of Neomarxism .
In most country development practices in the world , and sponsored by international cooperation organizations , dominated by the first ism .
One of its implementations is the emergence of big push theory , namely that poverty circle can be cut via big push in form of fresh capital from developed countries .
This in fact creates debt ideology , where developing countries are not confident to be able to develop without loan .
Loan flood era is started which make drowning from day to day .
With loan too an era of colonization via economy is begun .
Development strategy , investment priority , economy development pattern , and performance indicators are determined by donor organizations through advices provided .
Even though in form of advices , must be implemented as requirement of disbursement of the loan promised .
All cooperation which is imbalance is made in frame of continuing dependency to developed countries .
Unfortunately , decision makers in Indonesia digest without reserve all the advices .
Loss of independency , fragile structure of economy , social , and environment becomes regular issues .
In accordance with higher interactions among countries , in which corporation role has surpassed government , since 1980 globalization starts to be put forward .
Multi national and trans national companies from developed countries which has excessive capital uncontrolled rampantly .
By using international economic institutions and forum , such as IMF , World Bank , WTO , APEC and others , they make all countries surrender to Neoliberalism .
IMF and World Bank , as written by Stiglitz , work hand in hand in supporting neoliberalism and neocolonialism on earth through the making of Washington Consensus with Treasury Department of the US in 1980s .
The consensus dictates IMF and WB to force all countries to implement 3 basic strategies of globalization , i.e. macro stability , liberalization , and privatization .
Those three are nothing to do with effort to prosper public , even add to their bankruptcy .
Unfortunately , Indonesia is so addicted with the globalization although at the ASEAN level its economy is less competitive .
Bogor Goals , bases of globalization movement in the frame of APEC was created in Bogor , in 1994 .
This condition has been more viscous until now .
Economic team of government in fact believes the model as the top model that will control the world until the end of time .
Proven that all policies are aimed for successing liberalization implementation .
Foreign capital is ideal and dream of economic development .
This virus encroaches at public level .
Grant from international organization or foundation is the sweetest candy for NGOs .
They become operators of international missions without ever re think the objective behind it .
However , it makes sense to happen because foreigners always have henchman ready to sleek the road of colonization .
Increase of prosperity will not be embodied without initial effort to be free from colonization .
Because of that awakening public economy now is similar with the urgency of nation awakening in 1908 above .
Even though not all persons are aware and believe that we now are in the colonization .
Parties like this in fact lead the country and controller of country institutions .
It is proven by how intense they mortgage natural resources and national assets to foreigners , doing privatization , and abolishing subsidy .
Whether these are pragmatic steps , but all have been documented in various regulations , for example Oil and Gas Law , Capital Investment Law , Electricity Law , National Middle Term Development Plan , and others .
Means neoliberalism has been economy platform of Indonesia .
All of those will only preserve and strengthen occupation position and make Indonesian as servant in its own country .
Once more , to awake the economy we must free ourselves from colonization .
To do so required identity and attitude to resist .
Without those , a thousand types of discussion and solution proposal will only become merely conventionality .
The essence of the problem is at neoliberalism system that we implement so creating colonization .
With this system and its colonization emerge various poor consequences .
In term of income level widening gap occurs .
In term of production small-medium enterprise tends to be marginalized , its cluster becomes small and short .
Meanwhile big enterprise that involves limited parties tends to leave behind small-medium enterprise .
Fiscal role of government in must do business of education , health , infrastructure and prosperity is dwarfed with growing commercialization of public sector .
Meanwhile , government argues its capability is still small to be able to support public interest .
The statement is very correct because proven that the government has become poorer by design via privatization movement .
In term of asset ownership , then strategic sectors and priority projects whose benefits are guaranteed are surrendered to foreign and private .
They as economy players in the sight of government are freed to control for all their life , so management of resources taken not with scheme for co-ownership and enjoyed by public .
In fact we know , from long time ago , that essential problem of economic prosperity not inexistence of big and rich companies , but because of its benefits do not touch public .
Because of that awakening public economy must be begun with replacement of the wrong existing system .
Further on can be fixed various partial problems such as income , production and economy structure , fiscal policy , and ownership structure and use of economy resource .
Currently we are in the middle of capitalism century .
All over the world none is free from its grip , including Indonesia certainly .
Actually every human lives on earth can see , understand and feel how impacts generated by behavior of this global capitalism .
No necessary with lecture in high economics faculty , even they who are illiterate can answer when being asked about current economy profile although cannot provide the right terms for it .
Everybody can directly detect that there is a mess in the current economy .
Very obvious that the current economy profile keeps moving towards two opposing poles .
One of the poles brings the rich to be richer whereas the other pole keeps dragging the poorer becomes poorer with numbers keep escalating .
Because of that , in this paper the writer would like to propose two important things that must be conducted to be able to face all these phenomena .
First , we must be able to show what the real problem root , so economy condition can be like this .
Whether correct that all of this economy tragedy really source from capitalism economy teaching .
If correct , then we must have specific strategy to contain global capitalism , and at the same time can make alternative economy that can be the replacement .
To indicate connectedness of capitalism teaching with economy tragedy that develop recently , the analysis that ever proposed by Karl Marx basically is sufficient powerful to be able to understand the phenomenon .
In developing his theory , Marx departed from vision of value on goods and services according to Adam Smith and David Ricardo .
Value of a goods is measured from how many power that have been sacrificed by labor in producing the goods .
Furthermore Marx saw that existence of production pattern change form primitive system to modern system would emerge inequality in economy .
In modern production pattern , that work are employees .
Employer as company owner in fact never involve in production process .
However , employer that enjoys all benefit resulted by the company .
Whereas power of labor is considered as part of production cost component .
Fitting with capitalism economy theory , to gain maximum profit , then one of the methods is by reducing production cost as minimum as possible .
If goods value is measured by how big power has been sacrificed , then basically occur value surplus of labor power that has been taken by employer .
As such , capitalism economy is a very cruel economy to labor and becomes heaven for capitalist .
According to Marx , in free competition , big company will always consume small company .
Because of that the number of employer will decrease , in contrast the number of employee will increase .
And so do the number of big company will become less , but its capital accumulation will be bigger .
If the number of employee gets more , then the iron wages law will be applied .
Thus , the fate of employee will be pressed whereas the capitalists will be ferocious and greedy .
The analysis presented by Marx in fact is too simple for economy development measure of current capitalism .
Because global capitalism development in this century has been advanced and complex .
The greediness of capitalist is not only up to extortion of employee and acquisition of small class entrepreneur , but also their greediness have encroached and loot in many other sectors , even with support of various facilities and organizations created by themselves .
The capitalist does not only want to grow big , but also they want to get big in a fast manner .
The way is by creating banking institution .
Its major function is to tap public fund in a fast manner , so they immediately can use to add their companies capital to get big in a short time .
In fact existence of banking institution is still considered insufficient , they keep developing their creativity .
Eventually an idea is invented to create a unique market , which later they name it as share market .
With the existence of this market , they can easily throw in their shares for public to buy , so they immediately can receive capital inflow that can make their companies to grow like octopus .
Capitalism lust never recognizes the word enough .
They never want to stop .
They do not want to stop playing at downstream market only , but they keep encroaching to take over economy sources at upstream .
With argument of economy freedom and market freedom , they also want to control economy areas that are supposed to be public property that control life of the many .
The economy areas that they keep trying to control are various sectors of mining , forestry , water , oil , gas , highway , ports , airports , etc .
If they have controlled public property sector , then for capitalist is still considered insufficient .
Later they turn to companies that owned by the state .
With argument of effectiveness and efficiency of companies , they urge those state companies to go public , by selling their shares to market with certainly cheap prices .
Getting big and fast big in fact is considered not sufficient yet .
They also want to have security on the existence of their companies .
Security guarantee can be gained if they can encroach to power sector .
Because at this sector various legal products will be made .
If they can enter this sector , then they will easily produce various legal products and policies that benefit and secure sustainability of their business kingdom .
In capitalistic democracy politics , to be power holder the most determining requirement is only one , namely must have big fund for conducting campaign and to buy people's votes .
It can only be done by capitalist that in fact wallow with money .
The way they do there are two possibilities , namely by nominating to be power holder or the second way is by financing other person to win election and can become power holder .
They that have been nominated by capitalist , if win then they must enslave themselves to them that have financed their victory .
Is the above activity of capitalist enough , in fact still not enough .
Greediness to keep loot wealth at various sectors and various countries in fact they keep doing it .
In fact they still have real sophisticated way and almost out of human common sense .
They create an economy mechanism that can ease all their activities , namely by embodying a monetary system that really benefits them .
The monetary system they develop is by using paper money as main base .
By basing on paper money , they can obtain three advantages in one time , namely benefit from seignorage , benefit from interest rate and benefit from controlling free exchange rate .
With this three in one model they can obtain multifold benefits without necessity to work hard .
There is another sector that should not forgotten , namely educational sector .
This sector must be drowned into capitalism circle .
Their interest is so clear , namely demand for obtaining very professional workers , possess high skill and want to be paid very cheap .
The way is by throwing educational sector to their free market .
State role in managing education must be curtailed , subsidy of educational cost must be eliminated , so cost of education can be expensive and product resulted really fit with market requirement .
Educational model like this only produce people which are pragmatic , opportunist , and with servant-attitude .
Very difficult in expensive educational world to produce idealistic people that want to think about their identity and their nation identity .
To understand whether a country is inclined to capitalism or in contrast namely socialism , then the easiest indicator to use is by seeing how big parties that control its economy sector .
If the economy sectors are controlled more by private , then the country tends to incline to capitalism and in contrast , if the economy is controlled more by state , then incline more to socialism .
By using the above indicators , we can track how far control of capitalism grip has encroached Indonesia .
In fact the path of capitalism in Indonesia can be tracked when Indonesia entering the era of New Order Government .
The New Order Government was started on March 1966 .
The orientation of the New Order Government was in contrast with the previous era .
The policy of New Order is more inclined to the West and away from communist ideology .
With improvement of Indonesian politics with western countries , then foreign capital inflow started entering Indonesia , especially foreign capital investment and foreign loan started increasing .
Around early 1970s based on cooperation with World Bank , International Monetary Fund IMF , Asian Development Bank ADB was formed a consortium IGGI consisted of some developed industrialized countries including Japan to finance development in Indonesia .
At that time Indonesia was considered had shifted its economy system from socialism towards semi-capitalism .
Entering the period of late 1980s and early 1990s the economy system in Indonesia keeps experiencing shift .
Considering many policies taken by the government , we can evaluate that there is an economy mainstream that has been selected or forced to our country .
Politic economy issues in majority are taken to economy liberalization , either liberalization of finance sector , industry sector , or trade sector .
Private sector is expected to play bigger role because the government is considered failed in allocating economy resources to sustain economy growth , either originates from natural resources or foreign debts .
Pakto 88 can be considered as the mark point of policy of economy liberalization in Indonesia .
Wide spread of banking industry in Indonesia , later on followed by occurrence of foreign debt transaction of private companies which is very fast , have colored the economy of Indonesia at that time .
The economy development era of New Order eventually ended .
The peak of failure of New Order economy development was marked by explosion of monetary crisis , which followed by the collapse of all structure of Indonesian economy .
Post monetary crisis , entering reformation era , in fact the policy of Indonesian economy does not shift even a little bit form the previous pattern .
By following the lines set by IMF , Indonesia really heads for economy liberalization .
It can be measured from several major indicators .
Abolishing gradually various subsidies from government .
Means , prices of strategic goods which so far determined by the government , later on gradually will be fully surrendered to market mechanism .
The exchange rate of Rupiah is floated freely .
In compliance with agreement in LoI with the IMF , Rupiah exchange rate determination may not be pegged with fixed rate .
In other words , the magnitude of Rupiah exchange rate must be returned to market mechanism .
One mark of liberal economy is less role of government in the economy sector , including in ownership of production assets .
With the sale of BUMN state owned enterprises to private sector , either national or foreign private , means Indonesian economy is more liberal .
Active role of Indonesian Government in domains of WTO and GATT agreement .
With Indonesia entrance to the world trade order , becomes obvious the commitment of Indonesia to enter puddle of world economy liberalization or global capitalism .
Every time we talk about change , then we will be faced by two possibilities of change namely change by function or change by structure .
Considering the current economy problem faced by Indonesia , then the most urgent change that must be taken is change by structure , even though change by function should not be neglected also .
Economy change by structure means replacing the economy system , from economy system inclined to capitalistic to a new economy system .
However , the system change does not mean to change the system economy to be socialist , because this economy system has been proven to fail .
Indonesian Bank held governor election again .
Public expectation to governor of BI that will be elected is that can guard BI in protecting stability of Rupiah value .
As a wish nothing is wrong .
Since enactment of the Law of the Republic of Indonesia No. 23 Year 1999 on Indonesian Bank stated that main task of BI shifted from multiple objective stimulating economy growth , creating job opportunity , and protecting stability of Rupiah value to single objective reaching and protecting stability of Rupiah value .
Said also that the final objective of monetary policy of BI in the future basically is more directed to guard inflation .
Selection of inflation as the final objective is in accordance with recent tendency of central banks in the world , in which many central banks shift to focus on effort of inflation control .
After we know that the main task of BI is to protect stability of Rupiah value .
Then afterward that we should know is the essence of Rupiah itself .
Rupiah is part of paper money type , same as dollar and Yen .
The only difference is if US dollar and Yen are part of strong currencies type , whereas Rupiah is weak currency .
In protecting stability Rupiah value BI has some strategies , among others .
Increasing interest rate and tightening bank liquidity , assessing effectiveness of monetary instrument and transmission path of monetary policy , determining final objective of monetary policy , identifying variables causing inflation pressures , formulating response of monetary policy .
On the other side , government also has strategy in protecting Rupiah namely by implementing increase of levy collection , making voluntary loan or forced loan , cutting money , freezing part or all deposit of private in banks , and reducing government spending .
From non-monetary side is also implemented strategy to protect Rupiah , namely by increasing production , payment policy , price and goods distribution monitoring .
Even though has used multi policy strategy Rupiah is still difficult to control .
Proven every year , BI and the government always got headache by how easily Rupiah value being corrected .
This condition certainly makes us to question what is that causing Rupiah value gets corrected easily .
Riawan Amin in his book Satanic Finance , True Conspiracies said that those three above are the root of all cause tremor of world economy .
Those three satanic pillars are enforced its movement by existence of floating exchange rate .
Fiat money with three supporting factors makes fiat money easily drowned and makes these four items that in fact become the cause of turmoil of world economy .
As we can see from figure 1 above , the summit or root of any monetary problem is Rupiah itself and banking system implemented and floating exchange rate system .
However , the government assisted by BI only does fixing at technical level only .
In other words only surmounting just symptom , whereas root of disease itself is not eradicated .
As the result , plausible if all policies taken by government and BI only work temporarily .
Can the new Governor of BI protect Rupiah value to be stable or even make Rupiah as a strong currency forever ? The answer is certainly not .
Because root of problem is in Rupiah itself , not on the governor .
A three day conference was held on November 1967 in Geneva , Swiss .
The conference was sponsored by the Life Time Corporation presented Indonesian Government and world giant capitalist , such as oil and bank corporation , General Motors , Imperial Chemical Industries , British American Tobacco , Siemens and USA Steel .
In the conference , the Indonesian Government represented by the New Order economists educated in the US approved capitalist wish to rob Indonesian natural resources .
Freeport attained copper mountain in West Papua , an American / Europe consortium obtained nickel .
Alcoa giant attained major part of bauxite , companies of America , Japan , and France got tropical rain forest of Sumatera .
Since 1967 , New Order started to liberate national economy by enacting Law No. 1 Year 1967 on Foreign Capital Investment and Freeport became the first foreign company to sign contract with the New Order regime .
In the mining area controlled by Freeport predicted gold deposit around 63.7 million pounces whereas copper 50.9 billion pounces .
It is the concession provided by the New Order to capitalists in robbing Indonesian natural wealth as compensation for the support of the United States of America to Soeharto dictatorship power .
At the early stage in power , the New Order regime begged to the US for obtaining debt and assistance in solving bankruptcy of Indonesian economy .
To assist Indonesia , the US used multilateral approach by involving IMF , World Bank , ADB , and UN .
The US emphasized that IMF and World Bank must actively involve in reconstruction process of damaging Indonesian economy .
IMF played role in economy stabilization program , rescheduling Indonesian debts , and mobilizing creation of new debt for Indonesia .
Whereas World Bank assisted national development and reconstruction of Indonesia .
The US also wanted the New Order to use text books and references from universities in America as standards in program of economy stabilization .
Since that time foreign debt is used as funding source of Indonesian development .
Foreign debt which is initially stated by government as complementary became addict .
Doctrinization of foreign debt as development income budget caused the state did not feel that APBN National Spending and Income Budget had suffered bleeding since 1986 .
Since then Indonesia was drowned in debt trap so government always relies on foreign .
Hayter and Pomfret warned that foreign debt will not be given if there is no economic benefit for lender .
Foreign debt is still a powerful method for creditor in controlling natural resources of Indonesia and gaining financial benefit from project and interest of foreign debt .
John Perkins in his book disclosed his team worked to convince Indonesian government to develop infrastructure of roads , power generators , ports , airports , and industrial estate which were financed by foreign debts from World Bank , Asian Development Bank , and USAID .
Every loan must be followed by requirement that Indonesian government must use engineering and construction companies from the United States of America .
Foreign debt fund for Indonesia was never transferred to government's account , while transferred from Washington directly to office accounts of engineering and construction companies of the United States of America .
In contrast , Indonesian government must pay principal payment and its interest .
Principal payment and interest of foreign debts of government and private .
Dominance of foreign debt in form of project loan opens wide mark up practices .
In arrangement of projects funded by foreign debts project values were marked up in advanced by average 30 % by creditors .
After being marked up , those foreign debts were corrupted too .
According to Jeffrey Winters during the New Order in power , US $ 10 billions of World Bank's loan were corrupted from the total loan of US $ 30 billions .
In wider scope , chairman of Corruption Expert Team of ADB Soewardi stated that around 30-50 % of foreign debt of government was corrupted .
At the end burden of principal payment and interest of Indonesian foreign debt , including cost of mark up and corruption became public burden .
The pattern of New Order development which is growth oriented by pampering conglomerates especially from non-indigenous generated extreme gap .
At the time of economy growth of the New Order at its peak , income per capita reached US $ 3,500 .
However if counted based on GNP alone then income per capita of Indonesia was only US $ 960 .
It meant that US $ 2,540 per capita was enjoyed by foreigner .
Of per capita income US $ 960 around 80 % is controlled by 300 conglomerates , more than 200 million Indonesian people only get 20 % .
Non-indigenous conglomerate which amount is 224 control 90 % of the whole asset of Indonesian conglomerates , whereas indigenous conglomerate which amount is 76 the assets is less than 10 % of the asset of non-indigenous conglomerate .
In the name of development , the conglomerate acquires economy sector from upstream to downstream , wipes land and life source of people .
Because of that New Order development was identical with marginalization of people .
It was caused by provision of access to economy resources and access to capital extraordinarily by Soeharto regime to conglomerates and their cronies .
In the notes of Rachmat Basoeki , Trio RMS Radius - Mooy - Sumarlin that controlled state finance policy , via Indonesian Bank silently channelized Pembauran Credit for industry without warrant .
The amount of KLBI credit during 1985 - 1988 that had been disbursed by government to conglomerate reached Rp. 100 trillions .
As not satisfied to exploit state money via Indonesian Bank , the conglomerates were pampered by the Finance Minister JB Sumarlin whom issued Pakto 88 that became the initiation of liberation of banking system of Indonesia .
This banking deregulation package gave easiness to entrepreneurs to develop foreign exchange bank with capital Rp. 100 billions only and very light personnel requirement .
This provided opportunity for conglomerate with robbery mentality to sit as bank commissioner and director .
The conglomerate besides aimed for state bank as conglomeration source fund , also made private bank that they established as capital source .
In the name of development , via interest banking system the conglomerate sucked hundreds of trillions of people money for their conglomeration interest .
It was not weird if many private banks broke Minimum Threshold Credit Disbursement because most of the bank credit was distributed to their own company groups .
The coming of monetary crisis 1997 disclosed hundreds of trillions of non-performed credit at national banking system .
However the conglomerate since mid 1996 had taken away more than US $ 100 billions from banks in Indonesia to banks in Singapore .
Privatization committee decided to accept proposal of Ministry of State Owned Enterprise SOE to privatize 37 SOE .
The SOE which were privatized included 34 SOEs which newly entered 2008 privatization program and 3 SOEs which privatization were postponed in the year 2007 .
The SOEs will be privatized via initial public offer in share market and direct selling to strategic investors strategic sales appointed by government Indonesian Business , 5 / 2 / 2008 .
The secretary of Ministry of SOE Muhammad Said Didu said that Ministry of SOE was ready to release all government's share in 14 SOEs industry sector , whereas State Minister of SOE Sofyan Djalil said that government would sell 12 SOEs to strategic investors out of 37 SOEs which were privatized .
The government decision to do big scale privatization was shocking .
Because never before privatization was executed to as many as 37 SOEs in a year .
Since privatization policy was started in 1991 , the biggest privatization occurred to 4 SOEs in a year .
The most stormy privatization occurred in 2002 when government sold 41,94 % of Indosat shares to Singapore with sale price of US $ 608,4 millions .
At that year Indosat just bought 25 % of Satelindo share from De Te Asia with value of US $ 350 millions .
With that purchasing the ownership of Indosat over Satelindo totally 100 % with estimated value of US $ 1,3 billions .
Besides owning Satelindo , Indosat also owned company members IM3 , Lintasarta , and MGTI .
In the year 2001 state earning from tax and dividend of Indosat reached Rp. 1,4 trillions .
So from financial side only the Government of Indonesia was very harmful .
Since the start privatization of Indosat was not transparent .
Singapore bargained Indosat via one of business wing of its SOE .
Weird though , when signing agreement on share purchase of Indosat , the buyer name appeared was not STT but Indonesia Communication Limited ICL which based in Mauritius , a country that became heaven of money laundering .
To Metro TV Gus Dur claimed there was 7 percent commission fee or around 39 millions dollars from total sale value that entered the account of PDI-Perjuangan for winning general election in 2004 Hidayatullah , 2002 .
Learned from the Indosat privatization case , big fire sale of SOE this year is an effort to collect fund for winning general election 2009 might happen .
Should have been public since now be aware of extortion of state wealth by greedy and greedy john does .
If not , in the middle of current public life hardship , state assets keep declining while foreigners get more control of this country .
Privatization policies since 1991 up to 1997 were executed with initial public offering in in-country share market and overseas share market .
In 1991 government sold 35 % of share of PT Semen Gresik , later on continued in 1994 when government sold 35 % of share of PT Indosat .
In 1995 , government sold 35 % of share of PT Tambang Timah and 23 % of share of PT Telkom , in 1996 share of BNI was divested 25 % and in 1997 share of PT Aneka Tambang was sold 35 % .
Privatization policy in the New Order era was exercised to close payment of Indonesian foreign debt whose amount keeps escalating .
In 1985 government foreign debt had reached US $ 25.321 billions .
In 1991 the amount of government foreign debt doubled to US $ 45.725 billions .
The amount of government foreign debt kept growing so in 1995 reached US $ 59.588 billions .
Earning from privatization of SOE in 1995 - 1997 that was used by government to pay foreign debt could reduce government foreign debt to US $ 53.865 billions in 1997 .
Since the economy of Indonesia is under IMF watch , Indonesia is pressed to do economy reformation structural adjustment program based on thinking of Neoliberal - Capitalism economy .
Government intervention must be eradicated or minimized .
Privatization Indonesian economy as large as possible .
Liberalization all economy activities by eradicating all forms of protection and subsidy .
Enlarging and easing current of foreign capital inflow with bigger facility .
Under IMF , Indonesia was forced to tighten budget by reducing and eradicating subsidy , increasing primary goods prices and public utilities , increasing tax sector revenue and selling state assets by privatizing SOE .
Privatization program that was exercised by the New Order was continued by multiplying the number of SOEs sold in share market as well as to strategic investors .
In 1998 the government sold again 14 % of share of PT Semen Gresik to foreign company Cemex .
Privatization is shifting of ownership of state assets to private and foreigner .
However the Law number 19 year 2003 on SOE beautify the meaning of privatization by adding excuse in order to increase performance and value of enterprise , to enlarge benefit for the state and public , and to widen ownership of public share .
Based on the meaning of privatization in the Law on SOE , the vision of the State Ministry of SOE on privatization is to stimulate SOE to increase performance and added value of enterprises to become champion in its industry and to increase active role of public in ownership of the share .
Meanwhile in this year privatization program the excuse put forward by Sofyan Djalil is privatization of SOE is not to sell SOE , but to empower SOE itself , so will make SOE more transparent and dynamic .
Privatization is not as sweet as illustrated in the vision of the State Ministry of SOE such as the point of increasing active role of public in ownership of share of SOE .
In glance public at large is involved in ownership of SOE , whereas we know which meant by public is not public in general , but having special meaning namely investor .
As privatization of SOE is conducted by IPO and strategic sales , then who bought shares of SOE in small or big amount is investors in share market if privatization is conducted with IPO , and single investor if privatization uses strategic sales method .
Investors in share market or single investor can come from in-country or overseas .
Meanwhile which meant by investor itself is individual that conduct infestation .
So impossible privatization will create public ownership , because public life is already very difficult with expensive prices of primary goods , education , and health , how they can invest in share market .
Moreover up to the end of 2007 foreign investor controls 60 % of Indonesian share market so privatizing SOE via IPO ends up to foreigner too .
Whereas local investor , they are mostly capitalists that seek for profit , even more many conglomerates that made Indonesia bankrupt in the past has return .
According to Dr. Mansour Fakih 2003 in his book Free from Neoliberalism , the term privatization usually is wrapped with various terms and meanings .
For instance , privatization of university is wrapped with the term campus autonomy , and the term of SOE privatization is understood as increasing public active role .
The objective of wrapping of term and meaning of privatization is to disguise public perception .
Statement of Sofyan Djalil that privatization of SOE is not selling SOE but to empower SOE is a misleading statement .
Meanwhile steps of privatization policy in Indonesia are aligned with a document owned by World Bank whose title is Legal Guidelines for Privatization Programs .
In this document there is guidance of how government conducts privatization policy by eradicating legal problem .
Ensuring government objectives and commitment toward privatization .
Amendment of laws or regulations that hamper privatization .
Creating institution that possesses rights in implementing privatization .
Avoiding absence of right of privatization policy which can cause privatization policy cannot be executed .
In the document of USAID Strategic Plan for Indonesia 2004 - 2008 stated how this aid institution of the United States of America together with World Bank is active in privatization problem in Indonesia .
Meanwhile ADB in News Release titled Project Information : State-Owned Enterprise Governance and Privatization Program dated 4 December 2001 provided a loan of US $ 400 millions for SOE privatization program in Indonesia .
ADB wanted increase of private sector privatization in SOE which they called moving in commercial sector .
So capitalist financial institutions , capitalist countries , and capitalist investors have interests to execution of privatization in Indonesia .
In contrast the Indonesian is not interested to the privatization .
These capitalist want the Indonesian government to open looting arena for them .
They actually do not expect for improvement of economy and prosperity of Indonesian people , but what they want is to rob Indonesian wealth .
What they frequently say that privatization aims for increasing efficiency and eradicating corruption are without justification .
DR. Mansour Fakih described that there is no connection between clean SOE with take over of ownership to investor's hand .
Exactly we saw the world economic disaster in 2001 started with extensive corruption conducted by giant companies such as Worldcom and Enron .
In Indonesia private sector mostly non-indigenous descendant conducted extensive corruption in form of KLBI and BLBI .
To eradicate corruption in SOE is not through privatization but with firm and tough law enforcement without reserve .
As the Prophet Muhammad SAW said that collapse of previous societies was when commoner broke law , they implemented law firmly , but when person whom broke law was noble man , they did not fully implement law .
Because of that , if Fathimah the daughter of Rasulullah stole , I certainly would cut her hand .
Has been public secret that SOE is cash cow of officials , politicians , private , and people within SOE itself .
We also know that problem of corruption is acute from central up to neighborhood committee level , from central parliament up to parliament of regency / municipality .
However until now there is no firmed and clear policy from government in eradicating corruption .
In regard with privatization we must learn from the case of the United States of America and China .
The US that always forces neoliberal agenda to developing countries and poor countries , exactly totally reject interest of the oil and gas SOE of China CNOOC to buy the US national private oil company UNOCAL .
The government of the US , congress members , and public tried to fail the acquisition of UNOCAL by CNOOC .
Their reason is only one , namely acquisition will jeopardize national security , as stated by Byron Dorgan the US senator : UNOCAL exists in the US and has produced 1.75 billion barrels of oil .
Very stupid if the company becomes belonged to foreigner .
Privatization is main part of structural adjustment program born in Washington in 1980 .
So privatization always becomes globalization and liberalization agenda supported by IMF , World Bank , Asian Development Bank AND , the US and other capitalist countries , and investors .
The objective of economic politic program that they support is to protect continuity of colonialization by capitalists to developing countries and poor countries .
Islam syariah prohibits state officials to make policy by surrendering economy handling to capitalist or by using capitalist's standards because besides conflicting with the syariah concept also jeopardizing state and public .
Besides that , privatization and structural adjustment program are amoral idea that stands firm on ridiculous thought of Adam Smith about laissez faire .
This ism separates government and public by abandoning its responsibility as servant and controller of public business .
Later transfer government role to capitalist either foreign investor or local investor .
Syariah dictates government has strong role in economy so may not release grip on public rights .
Privatization conducted by government relating to SOE which is categorized as public property and strategic sector / industry is not allowed by Islamic syariah .
The Prophet Muhammad SAW said : Moslems assemble in three goods , namely water , meadow , and fire .
According to Taqiyuddin an-Nabhani 2002 public property include public facility , mining which amount is very large , natural resources which its creation causing impossible to be controlled by individual .
Whereas strategic industry is industry that produces product / engine required by activities of economy sector such as manufacture industry , agriculture , transportation , and telecommunication .
From the reasons put forward by the State Ministry of SOE seem public falsehood has been conducted to fulfill interests of capitalists .
Besides that possibility is opened that there is agenda of fund raising in regard of general election 2009 as predicted by Indonesian Corruption Watch ICW last month .
The coordinator of Public Info Division of ICW , Adnan Topan Husodo said that privatization of SOE was fund source of politic .
Enough falsehood and extortion of state wealth if do not want to get sentence from Allah SWT and Rasul. The Prophet Muhammad SAW said : Whoever leader that take care of Moslem , then he / she died while he / she did unfair to them then Allah forbids the heaven for him / her .
Privatization is not solution for Indonesia but a menace for existence of service and fulfillment public need and state independency .
It is time government and people to unify in developing this country to progress and prosper people by totally implementing Islamic syariah .
Micro finance is very strategic for public economy development .
Around 39 millions of micro businesses , means 98 % of the whole business entity in Indonesia still waits for micro finance access Tambunan , 2002 .
Say if credit need for micro business is around Rp. 1 million , then fund need for micro finance is Rp. 39 trillions .
Certainly , a number which is not small .
As understood together , micro business is very difficult in accessing banking .
Besides difficult to fulfill requirement 5C , administration fee is also very expensive .
Say with fund of Rp. 1 billion , better to serve credit to one individual instead to serve a thousand peoples with credit Rp. 1 million each .
Existence of micro finance institution for micro businessmen like an oasis in desert .
Micro finance institution is institution focusing to serve micro businessmen .
Micro finance institution actually exists in society , but the number is too small compared to need of micro businessmen .
In the category of Indonesian Bank , micro finance institution is divided into bank and non-bank types .
Whereas the non-bank type is loan deposit cooperative , urban credit fund institution , baitul mal wattanwil , non government organization , arisan , Grameen fund scheme , ASA fund scheme , public self-support group .
Although Bank Rakyat Indonesia and Bank Pembangunan Rakyat are categorized as micro finance institutions , due to loan requirement using conventional bank method , most micro businessmen are difficult to access .
Moreover if micro finance which is identical with poverty eradication .
The question is rather difficult to answer .
Referring to Indonesian Business Newspaper namely from non-bank micro finance institution whose amount is around 9,000 units , the loan distributed to public merely Rp. 2,53 trillions .
Meant , business doers that have opportunity of access to micro finance source are 6,65 % .
The amount is certainly still too small , because only serve 2.5 millions out of 39 millions micro businessmen .
Seeing strategic role of micro finance institution , now its existence seemed will be recognized formally by government .
This signal is indicated by the making of law draft on micro finance institution by Indonesian Bank , who prepares it together with the Department of Finance .
Certainly this effort must be welcomed , because micro finance institution with non-formal status is estimated around 2 / 3 from the whole micro finance institution .
In absence of legal recognition of micro finance institution existence , cause reluctance of the doers in developing themselves maximally .
Skeptically , its existence will be hampered by security officer or local government apparatus .
Besides that , due to its status which is not legal yet , causing cooperation with other parties or seeking for investor becomes difficult .
Paradoxically on the other side , the signal on recognition of micro finance institution existence has made anxious the doers .
Skeptically , establishment of regulation will hamper their performance .
Trauma of bad experience in the New Order era certainly still difficult to dismantle .
In the past , establishment of regulation was not intended to ease , but to hamper public performance .
This dilemma certainly must be found for its way out .
Various anxieties and sacredness are not to evade , but in fact must be learned in deep , in order to find the solution .
Because of that particularly for maker of micro finance institution law draft , certainly need to do in depth study on various existing micro finance institutions .
Because even though have good will , but if do not know the problem can be disturbing .
Even if have good will , but do not know the problem can be disturbing .
The philosophy of regulation for micro finance institution is to admit , protect , facilitate and encourage micro finance institution to grow , so can serve more micro businessmen .
Besides that subsidiary principle must be kept , namely function that can be conducted at low level should not be taken over by high level .
It is meant , the one at low level will be more capable , whereas the one at high level will also take care fitting its level .
Therefrom , both will grow according to the level they work on .
Trying to review micro finance institution law draft which now was issued at Finance Ministry , there are articles which are worrying , one of them is article 10 .
Stated , micro finance institution that deposit total saving over Rp. 1 billion must convert its operation into Public Credit Bank or Cooperative .
It is clear , assumption of the maker of micro finance institution law draft is equalized with micro bank .
It means a very small bank , if grows quite big then move to next class to be public credit bank .
This assumption seems to simplify the problem .
Micro finance institution is finance institution that focuses on serving micro businessmen , regardless the micro finance institution is big or small .
As known widely , finance institution generally hardly touch this marginal sector .
Thus the problem resides not on big or small the micro finance institution , but on function of the existence of micro finance institution .
If micro finance institution serves middle or big enterprise sector , it cannot be said micro finance institution .
The bigger micro finance institution as long as the function is fit surely must be supported , because will serve more micro businessmen too .
As an example , in Bangladesh there are many micro finance institutions that serve micro businessmen with very big amount .
It is clear , to serve micro businessmen whose amount is tens of million is required quite big resources , but not necessary to be a bank .
Isn't it if a bank , small businessmen will certainly faces difficulty again in accessing , because must face with conventional procedure .
Then the second problem , if micro finance institution becomes big and not become public credit bank , must convert to cooperative .
The tendency of cooperative meant here certainly loan and save cooperative that later on must follow cooperative regulation .
Nothing wrong with loan and save cooperative .
The problem is if micro businessmen are not member and want to borrow credit to loan and save cooperative .
The micro businessmen must become members of loan and save cooperative first .
This procedure looks become long and can make micro businessmen reluctant that as business doers usually want to get fund in a fast manner .
And more , no guarantee all micro businessmen want to be cooperative members .
Signal from government to acknowledge legally existence of micro finance institution surely must be appreciated .
With clear legality will abolish uncertainty among doers of micro finance institution , so they can develop their business maximally .
Varied cooperation with investors or finance institutions of course will be more open .
However good will only is not enough .
If various existing micro finance institution are not understood sufficiently , then regulation is drafted , the result will be contra productive .
The development of micro finance institution will anxiously be hampered .
Whereas , this time micro finance institution is highly required by 39 millions micro businesses .
And unfortunately , issue on lack of understanding on micro finance institution is quite comprehendible in the Micro Finance Institution Law Draft , in which the law tends to treat it like banking .
Whereas , essentially micro finance institution grows because adapting to characteristic of local society .
Knitting of nation togetherness and independence through micro finance for coping poverty and moving public economy .
In silent looking of current Indonesianess will make us dizzy .
Hit by multi dimensional crisis makes us fall down , even as if situated at the nadir point .
And seems we do not know where to put our face , if faced by the founding fathers that established the foundation of this nation .
Let alone now we stand on earth , where the proclamators were buried .
The situation that we experience now really anxious .
Seemed , whoever will not be happy to see around 38 million populations still struggling in poverty .
That soundless cry feels to break the heart , make us rushing to offer hand .
Experience indicated if the helping hand that we offered were wrong , in fact will kill independency , initiative , and creating dependency .
If they do not want to work , certainly cannot survive .
They are the have little , they own something despite a little .
Whether power , gotong royong tradition , family , etc .
Most of them are hard worker , but their productivities are very low .
More often the working time is unlimited , but their incomes are still minim , their effort cannot develop and only survive at subsistence level .
And if we look deeper , micro business is majority , because its amount is 98 % of total business unit or 39 millions businesses .
The existence of micro business is fact of real entrepreneurship spirit among people that can become voluntary renewal .
Besides accommodating fair distribution as mentioned above , developing this business group in reality is strategic .
They have had productive economy activities , so the need is development and capacity improvement not growing , so easier and more certain .
If this group is empowered accurately , they will shift easily to small business sector .
Effectively reducing poverty suffered by them as well as helping handling people in poor , old and young category .
The table below shows the strategic role of micro business in reducing poverty .
In view of micro business which is very strategic , a question emerges why most of this business is difficult to grow .
To track down that issue , the table below will indicate various problems that entrap micro businessmen .
For micro businessmen , capital problem accessibility to capital in fact is the main problem .
Due to the assumption , then accessibility of micro businessman to formal financial source is low , so most of them rely on whatever they have .
One way to solve that delicate problem namely financing micro businessman via micro finance .
In Indonesia , it is not a new issue .
Bank Rakyat Indonesia that was established since 100 years ago has aimed like that .
Micro credit approach receives new momentum , namely with existence of MS that held in Washington on 2 - 4 February 1997 .
MS is a rolling sign of global movement of people empowerment via funding strengthening to people based on experience of many countries .
Micro financing functions to provide capital support for micro-enterprises to increase their business , after that their businesses will run well and get bigger .
Both institutions whose nature are different , are tried to be organized and connected based on mutualism symbiosis spirit , or benefiting each other .
The bank will get more customers outreaching , meanwhile poor people will get access for obtaining financial support .
In Indonesia , it is known with pattern often called Pola Hubungan Bank dan Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat PHBK or Bank and Non-Government Group Relationship .
As the result quite big capital is available that really aimed for poor people via credit scheme .
The first form emphasizes on educational aspect for poor people , and training for independency .
The third form emphasizes on resources collection that that can be set as capital , which is aimed for poor people .
Whereas the second form is emphasized on connecting function and using existing institutions .
Poverty eradication effort and people economy empowerment whether realize or not connected with development practice that has been exercised so far that passed economic crisis and exposing its shortcomings and failures .
To assist poor people to survive in poverty until time comes for development cake to trickle down to them , various assistance for them are provided .
The format of this assistance is varied , starting from provision of various basic needs such as food , clothes , health , and education to technical assistance and grant of equipment and capital .
The approach which often called as the first generation development approach must be acknowledged has been able to increase various social indicators significantly .
At the other side , the first generation development requires a very big cost and must be burdened by the state which in fact more and more beyond the state's capability to self support .
As the result , as in Indonesian case various development programs are more and more dependent on the state and its financing relies more on foreign loan .
Learned from the first genreration experience , the approach on the second generation development starts to use micro finance as the major method .
The first generation development approach that concentrates on development initiative on the state has generated unfavorable impacts on both sides .
On the government side , development burdened which used to be disbursed among various society groups has sharpened and becomes the burden of the government itself .
Whereas on the society , take over of various development activities by the government has grown apathy attitude and growing large dependency .
Collapse of big business sector and conglomeration creates domino effect to Indonesian economy whose structure is already limp .
Another lesson that can be taken from that is existence of public economy sector which so far has been marginalized and in fact is able to become safety pillow of national economy .
Become common awareness that in the future public economy sector should receive decent treatment and should become alternative doer of national economy .
Taking over of development initiative makes development cost is concentrated at government .
The policy taken gives less appreciation to the fact that there is sufficient fund in the country .
Micro finance approach in the second generation opens thought that development funding can be conducted commercially using in-country fund source namely form public saving .
Woman's role has not received proper place for sometime even though it actually has extra ordinary potential .
Experience of micro finance practice in various places in fact provides different evidence .
Woman is in fact a group which is proactive and reliable in managing household economy and utilizing economic potential optimally .
Project approach during the first generation development is developed in fact most of them are not sustained .
This project approach has several characteristics , namely time constraint , work on allocated budget base , and follow up are not known .
Inherited time constraint at project approach frequently annihilates the results obtained by the project itself .
It happens because poverty problem is a complex problem whose handling cannot provide instant result and consequently requires long commitment .
Project works to spend determined allocation and no need to evaluate whether the fund spent will return or not even though the fund is a loan .
The fact indicates that various projects also never consider post project condition .
The facts become problems in project approach .
In the second generation , various development initiative put sustainability issue as the first priority .
Whereas at the other side , development doers should be empowered to be responsible in taking bigger roles .
In context of the second generation , building cooperation of various parties stakeholders in society is a very important matter .
Because of that required a joint forum of doers connected to public business development , so can communicate with , understand each other , create network , and cooperate in benefiting each other .
One of alternatives that have been conducted according to our experience is establishment of Gerakan Bersama Pengembangan Keuangan Mikro Indonesia Joint Movement of Indonesian Micro Finance Development .
Many problems that eventually can be solved by the related parties due to existence of interaction and intensive communication .
And from traveling reflection that we experience , to assist them which are poor and weak through establishment this kind of forum , good will only is not enough .
In fact required patience , dilligence , and endurance to struggle with various delicate matters , but must keep focus on the objective .
And of the success key of this kind of forum is participation and proactive attitude of the stakeholders themselves .
And as the closing note , what we decide or not today will not mean a lot for poor people micro businessmen tomorrow or next month .
They will keep trying to survive with their own ways .
However what we decide or what we do not decide today may impact development of public economy micro business in middle run or long run .
However every generation has its own choice , whether we will fight for it , certainly it depends on ourselves .
However for sure , every choice is a reflection of an attitude .
These which will show whether we will be a big and independent nation , or may we are a weak nation and become beggar .
Those three objectives as the base of Gema PKM and the accompanied three forms of motivations of Gema PKM's members are reflection of vision on micro finance .
More than just ' knowing ' , many have tried to convince various parties that what they do is LKM development .
In this regard Micro Financial Institution MFI in fact is more famous and has been known since long time .
However , generally the understanding or appreciation is limited to them served by MFI itself .
The existence of micro finance can not be separated from efforts of poverty eradication .
Even attention and effort to develop micro finance is mainly based on motivation to accelerate poverty eradication effort .
This is the reason of various international institutions to move directly in micro finance activity and development of its finance institution .
Micro finance can become critical factor in effective poverty eradication effort .
Improvement of access and provision of efficient storing , funding and insurance can develop independency of poor group and their opportunity to exit from poverty .
That in fact also simultaneously indicates the importance role and need of poor people to service of finance institution which fit their characteristics .
Relating to those issues , micro finance in return can also give positive contribution to resource allocation , marketing promotion , and adoption of better technology .
Therefrom , micro finance assists improvement of economy and development , especially for poor people category .
As mentioned above MFI development is believed as important factor in poverty eradication .
Moreover for many parties , MFI development is part of the poverty eradication itself .
Both aspects relate to each other , even though attention focus provision at one of them frequently becomes strategy that must be conducted .
Micro finance development strategy for both interests above seems quite clear and has become test-proof agreement in various discussions .
It is embodied via regulation framework development for micro finance .
Micro finance must be acknowledged , appreciated , and protected either the MFI or public related to it , and excluded from situation as an institution which is needed but illegal .
In this context MFI need to be parts of national financial system , which is supported not only by a Micro Finance Law but also various law and regulation tool .
It is connected with fund availability for MFI activity which is not originated from internal MFI itself .
It can be conducted by creating special secondary fund source or relating FMI with other existing financial institutions banking .
In fact what we decide or not today will not mean a lot for poor people tomorrow or next month .
They will keep trying to survive with their own ways .
What we decide or what we do not decide today may impact development of public economy in middle run or long run .
Because of that hope of the future accompanied by patience and consistency will become important component besides accuracy in selecting steps that will be taken .
Shaking change has shaken axis of values and faith that have benn practiced for sometime .
The collapse of New Order power is a bell signing a new start of Indonesian history .
Tide current of awareness on emancipation and democratization as if uncontained to penetrate and infiltrate awareness paradigm in managing various aspects of life in Bumi Pertiwi .
Regional autonomy era is obviously one of manifestation of that awareness .
Regional autonomy certainly should not be understood as shifting of power centralization from center to regions deconcentration of power .
Or shifting of authoritarianism from Jakarta to capital city of each region .
Idea of regional autonomy certainly is not alienated with idea of democracy .
Core of democracy is to facilitate freedom and public autonomy so can grow as maximum as possible according to potential and context .
Regional autonomy makes government closer , know and understand public , so function as facilitator can work better .
Through this way bottom up process involving public participation in various aspect of life , certainly will be easir to embody .
In this spectacle , public is determinat subject as actor and doer , either in planning or implementation of action .
Therefrom regional autonomy is a turning point , which simultaneously understood as regional governance based on public .
The above awareness engulfs and becomes base of awareness in developing micro finance .
Because basically micro finance is a synergy as well as implementation of base philosophy of faith values on people driven in regional autonomy .
And at this aspect , turning point as well as thinking base of discussion of this paper .
Observing structure of total Indonesian economy configuration , of 39.72 millions existing business units , 39.91 millions 99.7 % are public economy business or often called as micro , small and medium business MSMB .
And if we look deeper , micro business is majority , because the amount is 98 % of total business units or 39 millions businesses .
Realizing this reality , focusing public economy development particulary on micro business is a strategic issue to embody broad based development or development through equity .
Bad experience that occurred in the New Order era certainly should not be repeated .
The May 1998 riot if tracked down further , it must be admitted that economic gap is one of root problems .
Besides accommodating fair distribution as mentioned above , developing this business group in reality is strategic , at least can be seen several reasons .
They have had productive economy activities , so their needs are development and enhancement of capacity not growth , so easier and more certain .
If this group is empowered accurately , they will easily move to small business sector .
Effectively reducing poverty suffered by themselves , also helping empowerment of public in category of poor , old and young .
Observing role of micro business which is very strategic , a question emerges why most of this business are difficult to grow .
To track that matter , the table below will show various problems that trap micro businessmen .
For micro businessman , capital issue in fact is the major problem .
Low class public generally are almost untouched and not considered to have fund potential by formal finance institution , so causing economic growth rate stranded at subsistence level only .
This public category is considered not bankable because does not have mortgage , and assumed its capacity in returning loan is low , saving habit is low , and transaction cost is expensive .
Due to those assumptions , then accessibility of micro businessman to formal finance source is low , so most of them rely on whatever capital they have .
The table below will show the reality .
The above reality proves that poor people micro businessman are not the have not , they have but a little .
Despite limitation of what they have , they are sturdy in working. It is shown from the above data ; more than 90 % of micro businessmen rely on their own capital .
Whereas if they borrow fund for capital , more than 70 % originate from other sources .
The range of interest rate from shark loan is very high .
Despite that , amazingly micro businessman survives and works with that system .
However , certainly they stay dwarf and difficult to grow .
One way to solve that delicate problem , namely financing poor people micro businessman , is through micro finance .
MS is a rolling sign of global movement of people empowerment via funding strengthening to people based on experience of many countries .
Micro financing functions to provide capital support for micro-enterprises to increase their business , after that their businesses will run well and get bigger .
This form is based on saving led micro finance , where finance mobilization is based on capability owned by the poor people themselves .
This form is also based on membership base , where membership and participation toward institution have important meaning .
Forms that have been institutionalized in public among others are Non-Governmental Organization NGO , Joint Business Group , Credit Union CU , Loan and Deposit Cooperative LDC , and others .
In Indonesia , it is known with pattern often called Pola Hubungan Bank dan Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat PHBK .
Bank exercises direct finance service to group and Micro Business Flanking Institution plays role as bank partner to conduct group maintenance activity .
Bank gives making fee that calculated in interest rate level .
Credit agreement is established between bank and chairman or group committee that receives approval from their members .
Bank provides financial service to the group via Micro Business Flanking Institution .
Financial service and group nurturing are conducted by Micro Business Flanking Institution. Cost of pendampingan is obtained from the difference of credit interest from bank with what paid by group .
As the result quite big capital is available that really aimed for poor people via credit scheme .
The third form emphasizes on resources collection that that can be set as capital capital heavy , which is aimed for poor people .
Whereas the second form is emphasized on connecting function intermediary and using existing institutions .
To assist poor people to survive in poverty until time comes for development cake to trickle down to them , various assistance for them are provided .
The format of this assistance is varied , starting from provision of various basic needs such as food , clothes , health , education up to technical assistance and grant of equipment and capital .
The first generation development approach that concentrates on development initiative on the state has generated unfavorable impacts on both sides .
Become common awareness that in the future public economy sector should receive decent treatment and should become alternative doer of national economy .
The policy taken gives less appreciation to the fact that there is sufficient fund in the country .
Woman's role has not received proper place for sometime even though it actually has extra ordinary potential .
This project approach has several characteristics , namely time constraint , work on allocated budget base , and follow up are not known .
In the second generation , various development initiatives put sustainability issue as the first priority .
Micro finance now is considered as institutional breakthrough to serve financing of urban people and city micro businessman .
Woman is the most suffered victim in poverty , because of that they must be the main focus .
Besides that , from field experience at various countries indicate that woman is good borrower , user and in returning credit .
In order to serve poor people continuosly , so more are served , then financially the institutions must be guaranteed to sustain .
Impact of institution existence can be measured , so evaluation can be conducted , it is aimed for improvement of institution performance .
Reflecting various matters mentioned before , clear that micro financial institution plays important role .
Aftermath of wide reach of micro financial institution , can reach villages and cities , it is a development breakthrough .
Must be admitted , development so far frequently is less fair to villagers , because tends to develop cities .
With micro business financing support , it certainly will reduce existing gap .
Besides that , with faster development of micro business will also support development of big business , and vice versa .
Villagers have quite high saving capability , proven from saving accumulation reaching 21.8 trillion Rupiah at BRI Unit Desa BRI Village Unit .
However , capability in using credit is only 9.9 trillions Rupiah on Januari 2002 or less than half Source : Bank Indonesia .
It indicates that production factor access of villagers has been absorbed by city people .
Means development access developed by villagers has been absorbed by city people , so city can grow fast while village will be stagnant .
Whereas capital outflow from region to center is indicated quite strong , it can be seen from fast development of big cities , left behind regional growth .
Micro financial institution is more capable in facilitating to make villagers or related region can use saving that they earn .
Regional independency will certainly impact national independency , because national consists of regions , so consequently dependency on foreign loans can be reduced .
Social jealousy will automatically be reduced , because fair distribution of welfare will create multiplier effect as well as interdependency between one part with another part .
Regional autonomy era is an opportunity to empower people economy by utilizing micro financial institution .
Through micro finance people economy awakening outright national economy as well as poverty reduction will be conducted by people themselves .
It is time for people to find their own way to surmount problems that they face .
In regional autonomy era , unavoidably regional actors play important roles in development of micro financial institution .
Certainly regulation is one factor for micro finance development ; another factor is doers as well as stakeholders involved in the region .
Accummulation of various economic crisis impacts that occured in mid 1997 then ended up at increasing poverty level in Indonesia .
Percentage of poor people in 1998 is closed to poverty condition in 1981 and 1984 .
In 1981 is 40.6 million people or 26.9 % and in 1984 is 35 million people or 21.64 % .
Poverty is a phenomenon that is always tried to be minimalized or even if possible to be eradicated .
In eradicating poverty is required a vision and very long hard work because poverty is very complex so many aspects influence it .
Because of that effort of poverty alleviation requires existence of identification on who , what , how , where and why people are poor .
The identification is expected can be used as basis in determining the fittest policy to overcome poverty problem .
No. 8 / 2002 and No. 34 / 2002 to ease duties and functions of Poverty Alleviation Commission PAC .
This commission is under and responsible directly to the President .
The objective of poverty alleviation is poor people .
Based on BPS Central Statistic Agency population of poor Indonesian people before crisis in 1996 was around 11.34 % , after crisis in 1998 was around 24.34 % , and at the end of 2000 was around 18.95 % .
Distribution of poor people according to region indicates that more than 59 % exist in Java-Bali , 16 % in Sumatera , and 25 % in Kalimantan , Nusa Tenggara , Maluku , and Irian Jaya .
Centralization of poverty pocket in Java-Bali related closely with population distribution pattern that majority exists in Java-Bali .
With centralization of poverty pocket in Java-Bali , population in Java-Bali is also fragile to economic crisis so it influences increase in number of poor people .
For that group government program that is executed is social service .
Age below 15 years is people category which is not productive yet .
Government program which is executed is social preparation .
Age between 15-55 years , namely unproductive age , program executed is economic investation and it simultaneously become the focus of poverty alleviation .
In the agreement is mentioned that according to each business plan of Bank Umum is available fund around Rp. 30 trillions ready to be disbursed with market interest mechanism .
Especially for Micro Business as part of poverty alleviation will be disbursed fund of Rp. 4.6 trillions .
If we talk about MSMB , then must consider also constraints in MSMB development .
To overcome these constraints , the approach that should be taken is provision of micro finance service .
Besides that Micro Financial Institution MFI can also become extension of formal financial institution , before fund - for micro finance service - is disbursed to public independent group or that micro business .
The existence of Micro Financial Institution MFI itself also contains 3 three key elements Asian Development Bank and World Bank version .
First , providing various types of financial services - relevant with real need of people served .
Second , serving low income group poor people is major beneficiaries .
Third , using procedure and mechanism that are contextual and flexible , to ease reaching of poor people which need service .
Various phenomena above cause FMI becomes the choice of low class people because it has the characteristic of closed to people .
Namely compatible with daily life rhytm and using simple procedure , not strict to regulation and fast .
Capability to serve customer also requires capability of customer that can manage his finance so can be optimized for the sake of his business scale development .
Most bank feel useless to provide service to them .
It because bank considers service to poor people will incur high transaction cost and full with risk .
Bank tends to serve upper class economy , because this group is considered to be more prospective , nearer , and easier .
Even though taking role as social institution , FMI can become commercial institution through minimization of transaction cost , and playing role as independent public group in coordinating its members .
Due to nearness with customers and flexible regulation , then costs can be reduced .
That disbursement mechanism requires existency of a flanking .
Flank is the key factor to make receiving mechanism works .
To make flanking process sustainable , then required flanking cost .
Parallel with that , poverty alleviation must also be conducted at the smallest region level , but basic function of regional government is still as facilitator , regulator , and motivator .
It means regional government has a very central role because understand more and comprehend potential , challenge , strength and weakness of each region .
Poverty Alleviation Commission PAC is established via each regional regulation and funded via regional budgets according to potentials owned .
It is meant to equalize perception that in embodying development success public must become subject and poverty problem is not merely government business .
In accordance with Regional Autonomy era then regional PAC has a very strategic function , namely as a forum that coordinates all poverty alleviation program either exercised by government or public .
Besides that also as a forum to formulate problems , to execute program , to evaluate and revise existing program .
Relating with regional PAC in poverty alleviation especially for productive poor people , then empowerment and MSMB becomes main priority .
Consequently , empowerment and development of MFI are compatible with locality aspect and characteristic of MFI becomes one of basic requirement .
At least this working partnership can pass two channels .
MFI acts only as distributor and flanking for MSMB that receive credit from bank .
Whereas for bank , executing function is still hold by the bank .
MFI functions as distributor and credit stopper , and bank acts as credit provider .
It means bank provides credit to FMI which later on disbursed to MSMB sector .
This working partnership must be supported by other regional elements .
Whereas , flanking role of MFI can be run by NGO .
All will be distributed as Micro Business Credit , Small Business Credit and Medium Business Credit .
We hereby reported realisation of MSMB credit by August 2002 by 14 systemically Important Bank .
General bank has cashed approval of new credit allotment to MSMB as much as Rp. 24.4 trillions or 88.4 % of initial commitment. The number of credit encompasses 1.1 million accounts .
From total approval of the new credit allotment , credit realisation by 14 banks along 2002 until August 2002 reached Rp. 17.4 trillions , or 71 % of credit allotment approval during the same period .
From realisation of the new credit , 30.4 % is macro credit , 32.1 % is small credit , and mostly 37.6 % is medium credit .
From spending side , most medium credit is used as working capital credit .
Reaching of micro business credit provision covers poor entrepreneur or near to poor with income around Rp. 500 thousand per household / month .
One of main objectives of development process executed by Indonesian is to increase public welfare either material or spiritual in an equal and fair distribution .
This objective can be achieved if Indonesian nation is able to alleviate poverty .
Besides that MSMB is a sector which is joined by majority of Indonesian society .
MFI empowerment must cover two aspects , namely regulation and institution strengthening aspects .
Regional government has strategic role in poverty alleviation .
The role of micro financial institution in regional autonomy is to move people economy and surmount poverty .
In BRI itself , micro finance is defined as credit service below Rp. 50 millions .
There are still many definition of micro finance depends on discussion angle .
Loan in form of micro credit is a powerful tool in poverty alleviation .
However must be paid attention that when loan is given to they whom are very poor , most likely the loan will never return .
It is common , considering they have no income and have no productive activity .
Food and job creation program is more suitable for that very poor people .
Whereas part of other people categorized as poor but have economic activities or low income people , they have income although not much .
For that required approach , subsidy program or micro loan type which is proper for each poor people category .
Increasing productivity of low class people business in villages .
Increasing income of villagers .
Creating new jobs in villages , so can dampen enthusiasm of villagers to exercise urbanization .
Supporting government program as effort of fair income distribution of villagers and effort of poverty alleviation .
Indonesian Government policy in regional autonomy has influence significantly to government and finance systems .
From centralization to decentralization .
Regional business activity which keeps growing in turn will attract investor to invest its capital in the region , including in this context is micro financial institution and bank .
Their presence is expected will increase business of the region , via various products offered .
Qualification that must be fulfilled by Micro Financial Institution .
Has strong network .
Understanding need of regional government and business of local people .
BRI also provides various services as part of capacity building enhancement of customers .
Among others via customer accessibility enhancement program , Small medium enterprise flanking progam and inclass training .
In order to optimalize regional government income , fund owned by regional government must be managed well so its use can be conducted effectively and even generating incomes .
For that objective BRI offers cooperation in form of cash management , including salary payment .
Activities of BRI in serving middle to low class people .
Performance of BRI is focused on micro and SMB small medium enterprise .
Since established , BRI has mission in people economy development , of which now is reconfirmed by focusing to micro , small and medium business MSMB .
In contrast , corporate credit composition experiences gradual decrease .
Village Credit Institution may be said as historic mark of the establishment of Micro Financial Institution in Indonesia .
By October 2002 there were 4,518 Village Credit Bank VCB distributed at various remote villages in Java Madura and served around 70,000 people .
Service requirements and procedures in VCB are relatively easy and fast .
Customers of VCB are individuals that dwelled in the villages .
Average loan usually is below Rp. 700,000 .
BRI as executing bank has exercised credit provision for group below poverty line or called as independent group .
Income enhancement of small farmer-fisher , whose maximum member is 16 people and have received guidance and flanking by extension officer .
The fund originated from BRI dan loan of IFAD and ADB , of which the risk is covered by BRI .
BRI also shared the fund in provision the credit , besides received loan from ADB and IFAD .
Credit arrear up to October 2002 was 6.78 % .
P4K credit is distributed gradually , because part of learning process and independency enhancement of KPK , the credit was around Rp. 500,000 up to Rp. 2,000,000 per member .
Maximum KMK credit time frame is 12 months , KI maximum 18 months .
No guarantee of additional collateral in form of certificate or others except the business object funded by credit or freeze saving with value of 10 % from the loan .
Besides that they were also obliged to open group saving in advanced for 6 months until reaching 10 % of the loan value .
Anyway BRI gave fix interest rate per month to the group .
If compared to commercial interest at BRI branch is 19 % per year .
But still lower if compared to BRI micro finance interest rate of 1.5 % flat rate per month or 33.2 % per year .
For now , BRI is preparing executing guidance to all regions on credit provision to group and association of alliance of several P4K groups .
Now many P4K groups have escaped from poverty line and have received commercial loan from BRI at various regions .
In early 1984 , with support of Ministry of Finance of Republic of Indonesia and Bank Indonesia , BRI redesigned the concept of BRI Unit .
The use of commercial approach in fact becomes a new phenomenon of micro financial institution , not only in Indonesia at special , but also for micro finance world in general .
BRI Village Unit which was started in 1984 , since 1986 up to 2002 had grown and managed to earn profit .
BRI Village Unit which later was known as BRI Unit now is distributed in 3,902 places at all parts of Indonesia .
Target market of BRI is they who are categorized as the working poor .
With loan value up to Rp. 50 millions , anyway of around 4 millions debtors their average loan is around Rp. 3 millions .
Whereas for saving , now BRI Unit serves around 25 millions depositors all over Indonesia .
With performance record since 1996 up to now , BRI Unit is even known as the most successful Micro Financial Institution , not only in Indonesia but also among other countries in the world .
Main principles adopted tightly so far by BRI Unit Management are as follow :
The system applied in BRI Unit like product , procedure , accountancy system , and supervision are efficient and effective .
BRI Unit is easy to contact and always close to low class people especially the ones in villages or remote areas .
Saving and loan products are designed in such a way so fit with public demand that need it .
To ensure that simplicity principle works properly , then BRI Unit must be managed openly / transparently .
All costs related to BRI Unit activities must be able to be closed with income volume received by BRI Unit .
BRI Unit must be able to generate profit so forth can grow and branch out for its business sustainability .
Every attendant in BRI Unit must receive training to maximize the capability of every employee in order to give the best to customers and company .
BRI Unit runs supervision system procedure mechanism in order to ensure that all employees have exercised their activities according to execution of health banking principles .
BRI Unit always recruits human resources or employees who originate or dwell at local area .
Local people surely will also understand local people characteristics and business .
Utilizing employee originate from local area will also increase relatively high self ownership towards BRI Unit .
Business operational area of BRI Unit is limited by certain region , by doing so control and monitoring level from officers or BRI management and also public is maintained .
Operational procedure is also made standard so easy to understand and fit with local condition .
Product and saving good service SIMPEDES and also loan KUPEDES are made in such a way so very flexible with economy sector strength potential or business owned by the region .
BRI gradually uses information technology from manual way up to sophisticated facilities , such as radio SSB , telephone network , and also online system .
Of almost 4,000 BRI Unit existing throughout Indonesia , now at least all transactions and administration of BRI Unit have used computer facility , server , UPS and printer .
Information technology facility from manual , radio , telephone up to online system is used simultaneously at different regions throughout Indonesia .
That indicates attention and anticipation of BRI on dynamic of era development at each location of BRI Unit .
The technology used is different , but every BRI Unit can contribute profit to BRI .
For years to come BRI keep trying to increase distribution of its fund to micro business , small , and medium .
Up to now , BRI credit expansion has been able to reach the level targeted by government via business plan .
Until the end of 2003 BRI planned to do credit distribution to SME small medium enterprise in amount of Rp. 9.4 trillions from the position on June 2002 .
With experience on credit distribution to small business for more than 107 years we expect the target will be able to be embodied well .
This credit scheme is dedicated to support regional government wish in elevating living standar of low class people at its region .
This credit scheme is intended to assist absorption enhancement of KKP by cooperatives where now the absorption is hampered by shortage of collateral that must be provided the cooperatives .
To increase accessibility to BRI , BRI keeps extending networking throughout Indonesia .
On June 2002 , BRI has had 4,512 offices that consisted of 322 branch offices , 68 supporting branch offices , 3,902 BRI Units and 220 Village Service Post VSP .
Still in order to increase accessibility of SME to market , BRI also asks various other institutions to develop services to SME , among others is development of SME Center .
The development of SME Center is established altogether with KADIN and TELKOM , not only intended to develop network , E'market place also run as information center as well as education for SMEs .
Currently has been established at nine locations and in the near future with assistance of South Korean Government will be developed at 60 locations .
In development of E'market place network , BRI also cooperates with Agritani , a regional institution .
BRI has also conducted pilot project , flanking program of SME altogether with universities , such as Gadjah Mada University and Udayana University .
In this flanking program , experts from BRI altogether with students joining KKN field work accompanied by their lecturers , accompany activities some SMEs for three months .
During flanking , besides conducting research , the students also give guidance and counseling to small enterprises and guide them .
This flanking program is felt its benefit by SME , so now an continued program is being executed with other big universities .
As has been mentioned , that to achieve optimum result , in the real sector development requires support from all parties , including local government .
In the regional autonomy , with enactment of decentralization in governance and fiscal fields , regional government support is highly expected especially in forms of :
With the stopping of Bank Indonesia liquidity credit flow , regional government is expected can provide sharing replacement liquidity with the enactment of fiscal decentralization policy .
To ease liquidity credit disbursement , regional government can cooperate with banks at the region .
Regional government is also expected can support availability of credit loan facility so can ease bank credit disbursement to real sector .
To enhance accessibility to remote areas and mobility of business world , required sufficient infrastructure availability , such as sea , land , and air transportation .
Development of seaport and airport and communication network .
Accelleration of this infrastructure development is highly possible to reach if part of General Fund Allocation Dana Alokasi Umum is allocated to this field .
Quality of regional bureaucracy also needs to be enhanced in such a way so has paradigm of serving business .
Later on this is reflected in pro business growth through simplicity and clarity in business licensing .
To achieve this matter , it is required a paradigm of regional head as CEO at his / her region .
This change is necessary considering in regional autonomy , regional management responsibility rests with local leaders .
Security is an important factor for business development .
The more fragile a region , regional business development is also hampered , so will increase the risk in the eyes of banking .
Without existence of conducive support as mentioned above will impact to fund management which become not optimum .
The function of micro financial institution as financial intermediary is disturbed among other : low LDR .
Regional capital flight , where investor will withdraw its investation in the region to be shifted to other region whose condition is more conducive towards business development .
Observing BRI performance so far , seems that assets growth and the number of people receiving capital assistance as well as loan amount disbursed keep growing .
It is indicated that potential of micro financial institution establishment in villages is very big .
Still there are much idle money in villages and at the other side also many businessman candidates or people with entrepreneurship spirit but do not have capital and limited access to bank .
The role of micro financial institution in the era of regional autonomy becomes important .
For that micro financial institution should innovate in order to anticipate business opportunity which keeps open , especially in term of accessibility and product / service enhancement .
From existing SMEs there is a lot which lack of capital and management capability of saving-loan is still weak .
Government issued Law or Government Regulation that regulates MFI and obliges every village to establish MFI a kind of BKD .
Management and supervision of MFI are executed by an institution that has experience in managing MFI .
Regional government cooperates with foremost micro financial institutions give training assisting facility to MFI committee and give working capital assistance in form of loan .
Resume of national gathering and Indonesian micro finance development bazaar .
With determination to develop micro finance in framework empowerment of micro business as effort of poverty alleviation with target aiming for and serving 10 million poor people up to 2005 .
Micro Finance Development and empowerment of Micro Financial Institution are accurate steps in order to alleviate poverty and development of people economy .
Because of that is required recognition on existence of micro financial institution as separate entity .
Respecting diversity , uniqueness , and relatedness of micro finance with society development .
Giving recognition and legality to the existence of micro finance and Micro Financial Institution .
Providing protection to public involving in micro finance activity .
Prioritizing micro finance development strategy on basis of joint movement of all parties related with micro finance development .
Developing independent and sustainable flanking , including conducting flanking institution strengthening especially that functions in connecting formal and non-formal sectors .
Combining group and individual approach according to need and acceptance of public .
Developing integration between loan distribution and public saving mobilization , as well as making saving as system base and strength of micro finance .
Reconfirming as well as recognizing and appreciating to meaningful role of woman in every effort of micro finance development .
Developing micro finance supporting institutions as follows :
Institution that can execute protection function on saving and loan .
Inspecting institution , which simultaneously conducts minimum standardization on micro finance practice , supervision , audit , rating , and certification of micro financial institution .
Institution that develops cooperation network among MFIs .
Should be thought for consideration development sort of alternative central bank institution for MFI established by government , Bank Indonesia and association MFIs .
The legal framework must not aim MFI development into banking development lane , because indeed MFI is not bank and not cooperative .
The legal framework must also give tolerance and appreciation to MFI which due to its condition is not possible yet to be controlled in a legal tool and strict law .
For MFI regulation that regulate cooperation between MFI with other financial institution bank and non-bank .
That in KM Draft Law should be put regulation on protection to customer , either saving or loan that does not mean to be flanking .
That KM Draft Law should be clear to put protection to FMI so can be organization from , by , and for local people .
That must be considered capability to do inspection and enforcement on law enacted .
Law and rule that give legality , public protection , as well as basis for MFI development can be embodied immediately .
The future of micro financial institution in Indonesia .
In discussing viability aspect and sustainability , the topics discussed frequently by experts are regulation and supervision of MFI .
This writing screens the essence of issue on regulation and supervision that develop in international world and later on problem currently faced by MFI in Indonesia with way out advices .
Regulation for MFI which is regulated and supervised whether with applying existing regulation or with special regulation .
If applied existing regulation is for traditional financial institution regular bank .
For instance supervision on BancoSol in Bolivia is conducted by bank and financial institution supervision authority .
Supervision is conducted by supervising authority based on regulation specially regulate MFI or portofolio micro credit of financial institution .
Regulation itself is conducted by federation based on internal regulation that applied to members .
Hybrid approach , where a third party is assigned to supervise MFI based on approval between supervision authorities with related parties .
As example is Indonesia where supervision on regular bank and BPR Public Credit Bank is conducted by central bank , whereas supervision on BKD is delegated to BRI .
The interesting thing is that the emergence of special regulation for PFF in Bolivia is the result of teaching each other between bank supervisors during supervising BancoSol with BancoSol management .
Whereas discussion on regulation of FMI in the Philippines emerges from initiative of FMI practicioners that feel need nonna for viability and survival of their industry .
Problems of MFI in Indonesia
BKD status which is still hanged the status is BPR but not yet BPR .
Whether exception to those four matter are applicable forever or temporary ?
If forever , why not being standardized so not become question which physicologically bother its executioner ?
From legal perspective , BKD also faces problem because the legal shapes of BPR allowed according to Banking Law are regional companies , cooperatives , or limited companies .
Will BKD be forced to become cooperative ? History has proved the failure to shift BKD as cooperative .
Isn't there any possibility the insititution established based on village consensus is adopted as regional company ?
Whereas the article says that banking business is collecting fund from public and providing credit , thus it means LDKP that cannot become BPR may not operate again ?
Implication of Halted Function of BI in credit provision and banking supervision .
With withdrawed function of BI in banking supervision at least in 2002 , how is the supervision of BKD hereafter ?
So far , BRI conducts supervision to BKD based on mandate and especially funding from BI .
The problem becomes serious with rumor that BRI intends to lay off the task due to advice of IMF .
The background of two first problems is : inconsistency in BPR concept adopted by government , so disrupting the existence of MFI post Pakto .
Among monetary authority seems adopted myth that big financial institution is better writer's opinion in Media Indonesia , May 24 , 2000 .
PPW activity is aimed for increasing bureaucracy effectivity and increasing regional public participation in planning and executing development at each region .
Village credit system development is one of program components to reduce poverty by involving local people .
Based on each regional regulation , Regional Development Bank RDB is assigned as technical coach , whereas government officer from provincial level up to district acts as coaching body .
Success of LDKP mostly depends on management intensity from RDB at each province with its success in detaching from bureaucracy involvement .
But almost never been seen existency of academicians and internal high rank officers .
Government prefers to develop project or new credit institution , with low interest rate that causing MFI difficult to grow its business , than coaching existing MFI .
The future of Indonesian MFI depends heavily on proper regulation and supervision policy that understands mission hold by MFI and the condition faced .
The impact of enactment of public credit bank system to village institution performance .
Low morality of executioner apparatus in credit sector .
Low mobilization level of public fund .
The problems indicated basic shortcomings in formulation of conventional credit policy , namely on particulary inaccurate assumption used as policy base .
Meanwhile , in village itself people have been for a long time owned local or traditional financial institutions that serve their needs on principles of self-supporting and market approach .
The institutions are called Village Financial Institution VFI or which recently are more recognized with name Micro Financial Institution MFI .
VFI which become object of this research is people self-supporting group PSCG , Village Credit Agency VCA , and District Credit Agency DCA .
Bringing implication of working culture change , accountancy system change , organizational structure , and increasing coast which is difficult to adapt by most of VPIs .
If BPR Public Credit Bank system will be fully implemented at VFI , then estimated 90 % of all VCA will experience negative margins .
Does not encourage the effectiveness of VFI as financial service institution for poor people in villages because CAMEL criteria do not recognize infrastructure provision and deepening service access .
At initial implementation CAMEL in 1991 / 1992 , the number of DCA loan decreased 11.6 % , the number of new loan reduced by 23 % , on the other side the number of average loan increased by 26.8 % .
It was also indicated that , at least until 1998 , Indonesian banking authority had not been touched by micro finance paradigm which had grown at the world outside .
The factors can be effectively implemented as major criteria to evaluate performance of various types of VCI .
VCA is a healthy and potential model of VFI to be preserved because has several advantages , namely :
Potential to develop voluntary saving and access to depositors ,
Quite selective its mechanism of loan provision ,
Strong social relationship in reducing arrears .
Consistent in deepening service to poor people , and
Responsive to effort and policy of enhancing performance ,
PSCG has constraint in enhancing its performance because limited number of members so hamper access extension to depositors .
This constraint has been overcomed by extending PSCG whose activity is only saving-loan to become joint business that exercise other productive activity , so can increase profit .
From exogen variable influence towards VFI performance can be explained that :
General correlation of VFI to service reach discloses negative influence of cheap credits from government that causing VFI difficult to extend its service access .
Correlation between customer incomes with service access factor indicates there is still honest character at villagers .
The bigger their income , the more probability they save , the less probability they will borrow and be in arrears .
Micro finance is one of effective ways of alleviating poverty and moving people economy .
Mrs. Sri , with age around 40 years , lives in Sragen village Central Java , is a business woman of humble food stall .
One day must borrowed money of Rp. 1 million from shark-loan .
Every month she must pay Rp. 100,000 , but the loan is never settled because the interest is 10 % per month .
Thus the Rp. 100,000 that she pays so far only the interest , whereas the capital is never paid .
Then on her friend offer , she joined a group of micro business women , which is recognized with name PSCG People Self-Capability Group .
After the group is considered quite solid , by its flank is given an opportunity to start borrowing to Micro Financial Institution , Rp. 1 million each .
By Mrs. Sri the loan is used to settle fully all her debt to shark-loan .
Then every month Mrs. Sri keeps paying Rp. 100,000 to her group , and after 12 times installments her debt is settled .
Mrs. Sri is very grateful and since then her income increases by Rp. 100,000 every month , because her debt is settled .
That is micro finance ; with Rp. 1 million can change the life of Mrs. Sri and her family .
She indeed does not have access to financial institution such as bank , because does not have collateral or saving .
The only access is to shark-loan , and it means she will become poorer all her life , because of high interest rate 10 - 20 % every month .
How many people like Mrs. Sri in Indonesia .
Namely poor people , but have businesses which are very small .
Each institution uses different criteria , so poverty numbers are always criss cross .
Globally , there is a kind of understanding about poverty that can be accepted and understood one another , namely if the income is less than US $ 1 per day per individu .
Let us see the experience of Mrs. Sari in Parung Village , Bogor .
Her husband works as driver , and she herself is a daily need vegetable seller , takes place at her house .
Every morning , while other people are still sleeping tight , at 02.00 until 04.00 , accompanied by her husband she buys vegetables at Parung market .
She selects vegetables and daily food , with variety and volume which are predicted to be sold at the same day .
Left over that cannot be sold is consumed by her family , or given to less fortunate people as gift , because cannot be sold in the following day .
But this family does not want to consider their income is Rp. 2 millions per month .
But their income is more than US $ 1 per individual per day .
So they are not poor people .
Micro business has profit or profit margin which is quite high .
For example go around vegetable seller at housing complex .
But customers are satisfied , because do not need to go to market or super market and may buy as much as needed , thus win-win .
That fund loan is generally needed as additional working capital .
Let alone if income goes down , used to fullfil life need , so working capital depletes .
Here micro finance plays role to save them from poverty .
If the working capital is sufficient , then other urgent needs will follow , for instance children tuition fees .
They really know their responsibilities as parents , to provide good education to their beloved children .
So , without realizing that we have explained many aspects of micro finance , and its role in poverty alleviation .
Micro finance is an alternative which is very needed for micro businesses , because they do not have access to formal financial institution .
Micro Financial Institution MFI that provides sustainable funding and the fund gets bigger .
Micro Business Flanking Institution MBPI , which sustainably accompanying micro business groups as well one by one of group's members .
Business motivation and spirit can be well maintained , and they can learn each other .
Saving habit can be well managed and developed .
And if saving amount has been sufficient , member can borrow from his group .
By grouping , then transaction cost for MFI and LPUM becomes light .
Individual service to micro business will require very high transaction cost .
Therefrom micro finance can play role to alleviate poverty , not for all poverties , but limited only to poor people which have businesses economically active poor .
But do not forget , the number of this micro finance is very big .
Other poverty such as : elder people , jobless people , terlantar children , must be overcomed with other effective ways .
Another aspect of micro finance is its ability to move people economy .
If there are 1,000 villages , then impact of Rp. 1.5 trillions fund towards economy in villages and nationally will certainly be felt .
There are villages where villagers positions like individuals that stand in water up to their necks , so even little ripple should be enough to drown them .
Poverty keeps becoming phenomenal problem along Indonesian history as nation state , history of a country which wrong in viewing and managing poverty .
In country which is mismanaged , there is no bigger problem than poverty problem .
Village agricultural workers work all day , but they receive very little payments .
Poverty becomes perfect reason of low Human Development Index HDI , Indeks Pembangunan Manusia Indonesia .
In total quality of Indonesian people is still relatively very low , compared with quality of people in other countries in the world .
Based on Human Development Report 2004 which used data of year 2002 , the point of Indonesian Human Development Index is 0.692 .
In short , poverty is very complex and chronic problem .
From educational dimension for instance , low education is considered as cause of poverty .
From health dimension , low public health quality causes poverty to exist .
From economic dimension , ownership of productive equipment which is limited , technology mastery and lack of skill , seen as basic reason why poverty exist .
Cultural and structural factors are also frequently seen as important element that determines public prosperity and welfare level .
This approach determines rigidly income standard of someone in the society to differentiate his social class .
Limitation of this capability causes opportunity closing for poor people to involve in decision making .
Subjective approach evaluates poverty based on opinion or visions of the poor itself Joseph F. Stepanek , ed , 1985 .
Limited sufficiency and food quality , seen from limited food stock , low calori intake of poor people and poor nutrition status of baby , kids under 5 years old , and mother .
Around 20 percents people with the lowest income level only consume 1.571 kcal per day .
Deficiency of calory intake , namely less than 2,100 kkal per day , is still suffered by 60 percents of low income people BPS , 2004 .
